  construction and substantial rehabilitation projects must comply with prevailing  
  wage requirements under the Davis-Bacon Act. Section 221(d)(3) mortgages          
  require appropriated credit subsidy, which is limited.                            
Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  Public, profit-motivated sponsors, limited distribution, nonprofit cooperative,   
  builder-seller, investor-sponsor, and general mortgagors.                         
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                            
  All families are eligible to occupy dwellings in a structure whose mortgage is    
  insured under the program, subject to normal tenant selection. There are no       
  income limits. Projects may be designed specifically for the elderly and          
  handicapped.                                                                      
Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  Documentation regarding the characteristics of the property and the               
  qualifications of the mortgagor are assembled by the mortgagee and submitted      
  with the application. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB            
  Circular No. A-87.                                                                
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  Under Traditional Application Processing (TAP), the sponsor has an initial        
  conference with the local HUD Multifamily Hub or Program Center to determine      
  the preliminary feasibility of the project, before the submission of a site       
  appraisal and market analysis (SAMA) or a feasibility application. For            
  Multifamily Accelerated Processing (MAP), the sponsor works with a MAP-           
  approved lender who submits certain required exhibits for the preapplication      
  stage. If HUD determines that the exhibits are acceptable, the lender is invited  
  to submit a Firm Commitment application. An environmental assessment is           
  required for this program. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O.       
  12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should        
  consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or
  her State for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in
  applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review. This   
  program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102.                   
Application Procedure:                                                              
  For Traditional Application Process (TAP) following HUD's issuance of a           
  SAMA letter (new construction) or Feasibility Letter (substantial rehabilitation) 
  the sponsor submits a formal mortgage insurance application through a HUD-        
  approved mortgagee to the local HUD Multifamily Hub and Program Center for        
  processing. For Multifamily Accelerated Processing (MAP), the lender submits      
  the required exhibits, including a full underwriting package, which are then      
  reviewed by the Multifamily Hub and Program Center before a Firm                  
  Commitment is issued. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB            
  Circular No. A-110.                                                               
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  The local HUD Multifamily Hub and Program Center reviews the application to       
  determine whether the proposal is feasible. Considerations include market need,   
  zoning, architectural merits, capabilities of sponsors, availability of community 
  resources, etc. If the project meets program requirements, the HUD Multifamily    
  Hub and Program Center issues the lender a commitment to insure the project       
  mortgage.                                                                         
Deadlines:

  Deadlines are established on a case-by-case basis by the local HUD Multifamily    
  Hub and Program Center.                                                           
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

  Processing time depends upon the degree of preparation by the sponsor and         
  whether or not TAP or MAP is used.

Appeals:                                                                            
  If an application for mortgage insurance is refused, HUD will state the reasons   
  for the refusal. If reapplication is desired, the applicant may modify the        
  application and reapply.                                                          
Renewals:                                                                           
  The term of a commitment to insure may be extended under certain                  
  circumstances when more time is required.                                         
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  Section 221(d)(3): For general and limited distribution mortgagors, the           
  maximum amount of the loan is equal to 90 percent of the estimated replacement    
  cost. For nonprofit, public and cooperative mortgagors the maximum amount of      
  the loan may be up to 100 percent of the estimated replacement cost in most       
  cases. Section 221(d)(4): The maximum amount of the loan is equal to 90           
  percent of the estimated replacement cost. All projects: The mortgage insurance   
  premium depends on whether the application is under Section 221(d)(3) or          
  Section 221 (d) (4). Application processing and commitment fees are $3 per        
  $1,000 of the mortgage amount. The HUD inspection fee may not exceed $5 per       
  $1,000 of the mortgage amount.                                                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  The maximum mortgage term is 40 years, or not in excess of three-fourths of the   
  remaining economic life, whichever is less.                                       
Reports:                                                                            
  Any change of the mortgagor during the period of mortgage insurance must be       
  approved by HUD. Defaults in meeting the mortgage terms must be reported.         
  All mortgagors are required to submit an annual financial statement to HUD.       
  All approved mortgagees must furnish a copy of their latest financial statements  


                                                                               11-08
  at any time upon request by HUD.
Audits:
  The Department of Housing and Urban Development reserves the right to audit
  the accounts of either the mortgagee or mortgagor in order to determine their
  compliance and conformance with HUD regulations and standards.
Records:
  Mortgagees are required to service and maintain records in accordance with
  acceptable mortgage practices of prudent lending institutions and the HUD
  regulations.
Account Identification:
  86-4077-0-3-371.
Obligations:
  (Mortgages insured) FY 07 $1,254,248,333; FY 08 est $1,218,750,000; and FY
  09 est $1,715,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Loan sizes range from $1,100,000 to $40,000,000 with an average of $9.7
  million. Project sizes range from 35 to 526 units with an average of 155 units.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In Fiscal Year 2007, HUD insured mortgages for 104 projects with 16,219 units,
  totaling $1.0 billion. It is estimated that the Department will insure
  approximately the same number of projects in Fiscal Year 2008.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  24 CFR 221 et seq.; Fact Sheet: Rental Housing for Moderate Income Families,
  no charge; HUD Handbook 4560.2, Mortgage Insurance for Moderate-Income
  Housing Projects, Section 221 (d)(4), no charge; HUD Handbook 4560.1,
  Section 221(d)(3) Market Interest Rate for Project Mortgage Insurance, no
  charge; HUD Handbook 4560.3, Mortgage Insurance for Single Room
  Occupancy Projects; no charge; HUD Handbook 4550.3; Basic Cooperative
  Housing Insurance Handbook, no charge. Handbooks are on HUDCLIPS at
  http://www.hudclips.org. The Multifamily Accelerated Processing (MAP)
  Guide is on the web. Refer to HUD's MAP page at
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/mfh/map/maphome.cfm.
Regional or Local Office:
  Persons are encouraged to contact the Multifamily Hub or Program Center with
  jurisdiction for the proposed project. HUD Multifamily Hubs or Program
  Centers are listed at http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/mfh/mfbroch/hubs_pcs.cfm
  or in the Catalog Address Appendix IV.
Headquarters Office:
  Office of Multifamily Development, Department of Housing and Urban
  Development, Washington, DC 20410. Telephone: (202) 708-1142.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/hsgmulti.cfm.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  14.134, Mortgage Insurance_Rental Housing.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
14.138 MORTGAGE INSURANCE-RENTAL HOUSING FOR
THE ELDERLY
   (231)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  HOUSING, DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORIZATION:
  National Housing Act, as amended, Section 231, Public Law 86-372, 73 U.S.C.
  654, 12 U.S.C. 1715(V).
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide good quality rental housing for the elderly.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Guaranteed/Insured Loans.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Section 231 insures lenders against loss on mortgages. Section 231 was
  designed to increase the supply of rental housing specifically for the use and
  occupancy of elderly persons and/or persons with disabilities. Insured
  mortgages may be used to finance construction or rehabilitation of detached,
  semidetached, walk-up, or elevator type rental housing designed for occupancy
  by elderly or handicapped individuals and consisting of 8 or more rental units.
  The program has statutory per unit mortgage limits which vary according to the
  size of the unit, the type of structure, and the location of the project. There are
  also loan-to-replacement cost and debt service limitations.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible mortgagors include private profit-motivated developers, and nonprofit
  sponsors.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  All elderly or handicapped persons are eligible to occupy apartments in a project
  whose mortgage is insured under the program.
Credentials/Documentation:
                                                                                    303
