  Documentation regarding the characteristics of the property and the                 
  qualifications of the mortgagor must be submitted with the application. This        
  program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.                      
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  The sponsor has an initial conference with the local HUD Multifamily Hub and        
  Program Center to determine the preliminary feasibility of the project before a     
  site appraisal and market analysis (SAMA)application (for new construction          
  projects) or feasibility application (for substantial rehabilitation projects) is   
  submitted. An environmental assessment is required for this program. This           
  program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review        
  of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the state office or official      
  designated as the single point of contact for additional information on the         
  process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State  
  has selected the program for review. This program is excluded from coverage         
  under OMB Circular No. A-102.                                                       
Application Procedure:                                                                
  The sponsor submits a formal application through a HUD-approved mortgagee           
  to the local HUD Multifamily Hub or Program Center. This program is                 
  excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-110.

Award Procedure:                                                                      
  If the project meets program requirements, the local HUD Multifamily Hub or

                                                                                      
  Program Center issues a commitment to the lender for mortgage insurance.

Deadlines:                                                                            
  Deadlines are established on a case-by-case basis by the local HUD Multifamily

  Hub or Program Center.                                                              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Processing time varies depending upon the degree of preparation by the sponsor      
  and HUD Multifamily Hub and Program Center workload.                                
Appeals:                                                                              
  If an application for mortgage insurance is denied, HUD will state the reasons      
  for the denial. If reapplication is desired, the applicant may modify the           
  application and reapply.                                                            
Renewals:                                                                             
  The term of a commitment to insure may be extended when more time is                
  required.                                                                           
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Formula and Matching Requirements: For nonprofit and public mortgagors, the         
  maximum amount of the loan is equal to 100 percent of the estimated                 
  replacement cost (or 100 percent of project value for projects involving            
  rehabilitation). For all other mortgagors, the maximum amount of the loan is up     
  to 90 percent of the replacement cost (90 percent of project value for projects     
  involving rehabilitation). The annual mortgage insurance premium is one-half        
  percent of the mortgage amount. The HUD application processing and                  
  commitment fees are $3 per $1,000 of the mortgage amount. The HUD                   
  inspection fee may not exceed $5 per $1,000 of the mortgage amount.                 
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  The maximum mortgage term is 40 years or not in excess of three-fourths of the      
  remaining economic life, whichever is less.                                         
Reports:                                                                              
  Any change of the mortgagor during the period of mortgage insurance must be         
  approved by HUD. Defaults in meeting the mortgage terms must be reported.           
  All mortgagors are required to submit an annual financial statement to HUD.         
  All approved mortgagees at any time upon request by HUD must furnish copies         
  of their latest financial statements.                                               
Audits:                                                                               
  The Department of Housing and Urban Development reserves the right to audit         
  the accounts of either the mortgagee or mortgagor in order to determine their       
  compliance and conformance with HUD regulations and standards.                      
Records:                                                                              
  Mortgagees are required to service and maintain records in accordance with          
  acceptable mortgage practice of prudent lending institutions and the HUD            
  regulations.                                                                        
Account Identification:                                                               
  86-4077-0-3-371.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  Reported under program 14.135.                                                      
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  For nonprofit and public mortgagors, the maximum amount of the loan is equal        
  to 100 percent of the estimated replacement cost. For all other mortgagors, the     
  maximum amount of the loan is up to 90 percent of the replacement cost.             
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  In fiscal year 2007, HUD insured 2 mortgages with 262 units totaling $8.8           
  million. It is estimated that the Department will insure approximately the same     
  number of projects in Fiscal Year 2008.                                             
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Fact Sheet, Section 231 for the Elderly; 24 CFR 231.1 et seq. Section 231,          
  Housing for the Elderly for Project Mortgage Insurance, HUD Handbook                
  4570.1, no charge, available on HUDCLIPS at http://www.hudclips.org.                
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Persons are encouraged to communicate with the Multifamily Hub or Program           


304                                                                             11-08

  Center with jurisdiction for the proposed property. HUD Multifamily Hubs or
  Program Centers are listed at
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/mfh/mfbroch/hubs_pcs.cfm and in the Catalog
  Address Appendix IV.
Headquarters Office:
  Office of Multifamily Development, Department of Housing and Urban
  Development, 451 7th Street, S.W., Washington, DC 20410. Telephone: (202)
  708-1142.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/hsgmulti.cfm.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  14.134, Mortgage Insurance_Rental Housing; 14.135, Mortgage
  Insurance_Rental and Cooperative Housing for Moderate Income Families and
  Elderly, Market Interest Rate.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
14.139 MORTGAGE INSURANCE-RENTAL HOUSING IN
URBAN RENEWAL AREAS
   (220 Multifamily)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  HOUSING, DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORIZATION:
  National Housing Act, as amended, Section 220, Public Law 83-560, 12 U.S.C.
  1745(k).
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide good quality rental housing in urban renewal areas, code
  enforcement areas, and other areas designated for overall revitalization.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Guaranteed/Insured Loans.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Section 220 insures lenders against loss on mortgage defaults. Insured
  mortgages may be used to finance proposed construction or rehabilitation of
  detached, semi-detached, row, walk-up, or elevator type rental housing or to
  finance the purchase of properties which have been rehabilitated by a local
  public agency. Property must consist of two or more units and must be located
  in an urban renewal area, urban redevelopment project, or code enforcement
  program area, urban area receiving rehabilitation assistance as a result of natural
  disaster, or area where concentrated housing, physical development and public
  service activities are being carried out in a coordinated manner. The program
  has statutory mortgage limits which vary according to the size of the unit, the
  type of structure, and the location of the project. There are also loan-to-
  replacement cost and debt service limitations. Contractors for new construction
  and substantial rehabilitation projects must comply with prevailing wage
  standards under the Davis-Bacon Act.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible mortgagors include private profit motivated entities, public bodies, and
  others who meet HUD requirements for mortgagors.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  All families eligible to occupy a dwelling in a structure whose mortgage is
  insured under the program, subject to normal tenant selection.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Documentation regarding the characteristics of the property and the
  qualifications of the mortgagor must be submitted with the application. This
  program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  For Traditional Application Process (TAP) of a mortgage insurance application,
  the sponsor will have an initial conference with the local HUD Multifamily Hub
  or Program Center to determine the preliminary feasibility of the project before a
  site appraisal and market analysis application, or a firm commitment application
  is submitted. For Multifamily Accelerated Processing (MAP) for new
  construction or substantial rehabilitation loans, the sponsor works with a MAP-
  approved lender who submits certain required exhibits for the preapplication
  stage. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102.
   An environmental assessment is required for this program. This program is
  eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal
  programs." An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the
  single point of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the
  State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected
  the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  For traditional processing, the application for a Firm Commitment is submitted
  by the sponsor through a HUD-approved mortgagee, and the application is
  processed by the Multifamily Hub or Program Center. For Multifamily
  Accelerated Processing (MAP), the application for a Firm Commitment,
  including a full underwriting package, is submitted by the MAP leader for HUD
