  Field Office review. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB            
  Circular No. A-110.                                                              
Award Procedure:                                                                   
  The local Multifamily Hub or Program Center reviews the application to           
  determine whether the proposal is feasible. Considerations include market need,

  zoning, architectural merits, capabilities of sponsors, availability of community
  resources, etc. If the project meets program requirements, the Multifamily Hub

  or Program Center issues the lender a commitment to insure the project

                                                                                   
  mortgage.                                                                        
Deadlines:                                                                         
  Deadlines are established on a case by case basis by the Multifamily Hub or

  Program Center.                                                                  
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                
  Processing time depends upon the degree of preparation by the sponsor and        
  whether or not Multifamily Accelerated Processing (MAP) or Traditional           
  Application Processing (TAP) is used.                                            
Appeals:                                                                           
  If an application for mortgage insurance is denied, HUD will state the reasons   
  for the denial. If reapplication is desired, the applicant may modify the        
  application and reapply.                                                         
Renewals:                                                                          
  The term of a commitment to insure may be extended under certain                 
  circumstances when more time is required to close the loan.                      
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                 
  The maximum amount of the loan may not exceed 90 percent of the estimated        
  replacement cost for new construction. For substantial rehabilitation projects,  
  the maximum mortgage amount is 90 percent of the estimated cost of repair and    
  rehabilitation and the estimated value of the property before the repair and     
  rehabilitation project. The HUD application processing fee is $3 per $1,000 of   
  the mortgage amount. The HUD inspection fee may not exceed $5 per $1,000 of      
  the mortgage amount.                                                             
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                             
  The maximum mortgage term is 40 years, or not in excess of three-fourths of the  
  remaining economic life, whichever is less.                                      
Reports:                                                                           
  Any change of the mortgagor during the period of mortgage insurance must be      
  approved by HUD. Defaults in meeting the mortgage terms must be reported.        
  All mortgagors are required to submit annual financial statements to HUD. All    
  approved mortgagees must furnish copies of their latest financial statements at  
  any time upon request by HUD.                                                    
Audits:                                                                            
  The Department of Housing and Urban Development reserves the right to audit      
  the accounts of either the mortgagee or mortgagor in order to determine their    
  compliance and conformance with HUD regulations and standards.                   
Records:                                                                           
  Mortgagees are required to service and maintain records in accordance with       
  acceptable mortgage practices of prudent lending institutions and the HUD        
  regulations.                                                                     
Account Identification:                                                            
  86-4077-0-3-371.                                                                 
Obligations:                                                                       
  Reported under program 14.135.                                                   
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                         
  Loan sizes range from $1,365,500 to 45,495,200, with an average of $17.9         
  million. Project sizes range from 48 units to 340 units with an average of 138   
  units.                                                                           
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                           
  In Fiscal Year 2007, HUD insured one project with 420 units, totaling $29.4      
  million. It is estimated that the Department will insure approximately the same  
  number of mortgages during fiscal Year 2008.                                     
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                           
  24 CFR 220.1 et seq.; Fact Sheet: Urban Renewal Housing (Mortgage                
  Insurance), no charge; Rental Housing in Urban Renewal Areas for Project         
  Mortgage Insurance, HUD Handbook 4555.1, no charge, available on                 
  HUDCLIPS at http://www.hudclips.org.                                             
Regional or Local Office:                                                          
  Persons are encouraged to communicate with the nearest local HUD Multifamily     
  Field Office listed at                                                           
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/mfh/mfbroch/hubs_pcs.cfm or contact the           
  nearest HUD Field Office listed in the Catalog Address Appendix IV.              
Headquarters Office:                                                               
  Office of Multifamily Development, Department of Housing and Urban               
  Development, 451 7th Street, S.W., Washington, DC 20410. Telephone: (202)        
  708-1142.                                                                        
Web Site Address:                                                                  
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/hsgmulti.cfm.                                     
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                  
  14.134, Mortgage Insurance_Rental Housing; 14.135, Mortgage                      
  Insurance_Rental and Cooperative Housing for Moderate Income Families and        
  Elderly, Market Interest Rate.                                                   


                                                                              11-08
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
14.142 PROPERTY IMPROVEMENT LOAN INSURANCE
FOR IMPROVING ALL EXISTING STRUCTURES AND
BUILDING OF NEW NONRESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
   (Title I)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  HOUSING, DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORIZATION:
  National Housing Act, Title I, Section 2, as amended, 12 U.S.C. 1703.
OBJECTIVES:
  To facilitate the financing of improvements to homes and other existing
  structures and the building of new nonresidential structures.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Guaranteed/Insured Loans.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  HUD insures lenders against loss on loans. Insured loans may be used to finance
  alterations, repairs, and improvements for existing structures and the building of
  new nonresidential structures which substantially protect or improve the basic
  livability or utility of the properties. The maximum loan amount is $25,000 for
  improving a single family home or for improving or building a nonresidential
  structure. For improving a multifamily structure, the maximum loan amount is
  $12,000 per family unit, not to exceed a total of $60,000 for the structure.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible borrowers include the owner of the property to be improved, a lessee
  having a lease extending at least 6 months beyond maturity of the loan, or a
  purchaser of the property under a land installment contract.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Individuals/families.
Credentials/Documentation:
  The responsibility for credit approval of borrowers is exercised by HUD-insured
  lenders. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-
  87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  The borrower applies directly to an insured lender, or through a lender's
  approved dealer. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular
  Nos. A-102 and A-110.
Award Procedure:
  None.
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  HUD does not participate in the approval or disapproval of individual loans.
Appeals:
  Reapplication in case of refusal should be submitted to an approved lender.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  HUD insures private lenders against losses of up to 90 percent of any single loan
  with maximum insurance coverage limited to a total of 10 percent of the total
  amount insured. The interest rate is a negotiable interest rate agreed upon
  between the borrower and lender. The annual insurance charge is $1 per $100 of
  the amount advanced.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Loans mature in 20 years and 32 days or earlier. Loans may be refinanced, but
  may not extend beyond 30 years from the date of the original note.
Reports:
  None.
Audits:
  The Department of Housing and Urban Development reserves the right to audit
  the accounts of lenders in order to determine their compliance and conformance
  with HUD regulations and standards.
Records:
  Lenders are required to service and maintain records in accordance with
  acceptable lending practices of prudent lending institutions and the HUD
  regulations.
Account Identification:
  86-4077-0-3-371.
Obligations:
  (Loans insured) FY 07 $42,413,306; FY 08 est $54,367,000; and FY 09 est
  $54,367,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  The maximum loan amount is $25,000 for improving a single family home or
                                                                                  305
