  mortgages or mortgages held by HUD, or (2) to finance energy conservation         
  improvements. The proceeds of a loan involving an insured nursing home,           
  hospital or a group practice facility may also be used to purchase equipment to   
  be used in the operation of such nursing home or facility. The maximum            
  insurable loan for an insured project is an amount which, when added to the       
  outstanding balance of the existing insured mortgage, does not exceed the         
  amount insurable under the program pursuant to which the mortgage covering        
  such project or facility is insured. Where the project is covered by a mortgage   
  held by the Secretary the principal amount of the loan shall be in an amount      
  acceptable to the Secretary. Contractors of substantial rehabilitation projects   
  must comply with prevailing wage requirements under the Davis-Bacon Act.          
  Section 241(a) for apartments requires appropriated credit subsidy, which is      
  limited.                                                                          
Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  Owners of a multifamily project or facility already subject to a mortgage insured 
  by HUD or held by HUD.                                                            
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                            
  Individuals/families and owners of multifamily projects.                          
Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  Documentation regarding the characteristics of the property and the               
  qualifications of the mortgagor are assembled by the mortgagee and submitted      
  with the application. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB            
  Circular No. A-87.                                                                
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  The sponsor will have a preapplication conference with the local HUD              
  Multifamily Hub and Program Center which does multifamily processing to           
  determine the preliminary feasibility of making the proposed improvements         
  before a formal application is submitted. This program is excluded from           
  coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102. This program is eligible for coverage      
  under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An              
  applicant should consult the office or official designated as the single point of 
  contact in his or her State for more information on the process the State requires
  to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program

  for review.                                                                       
Application Procedure:                                                              
  The sponsor submits a formal application for review and approval or disapproval

  through a HUD-approved mortgagee to the local HUD Multifamily Hub or              
  Program Center. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular         
  No. A-110.

Award Procedure:                                                                    
  If the proposed improvements meets program requirements, the local HUD            
  Multifamily Hub and Program Center issues a commitment to the lender to           
  insure the mortgage.                                                              
Deadlines:                                                                          
  Deadlines are established on a case-by-case basis by the local HUD Multifamily    
  Hub and Program Center.                                                           
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  Processing time depends upon the degree of preparation by the sponsor and         
  workload in the HUD Multifamily Hub and Program Center.                           
Appeals:                                                                            
  If an application for mortgage insurance is refused, HUD will state the reasons   
  for the refusal. If reapplication is desired, the applicant may modify the        
  application and reapply.                                                          
Renewals:                                                                           
  The term of a commitment to insure may be extended when more time is              
  required to close the loan.                                                       
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  The amount of the loan may not exceed 90 percent of the estimated value of the    
  improvements, additions, or equipment.                                            
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  A loan for a project with a HUD-insured or HUD-held mortgage must have a          
  maturity acceptable to HUD.                                                       
Reports:                                                                            
  Any change of the borrower during the period of loan insurance must be            
  approved by HUD. Defaults in meeting the loan terms must be reported. All         
  borrowers are required to submit an annual financial statement to HUD. All        
  approved lenders at any time upon request by HUD must furnish copies of their     
  latest financial statements.                                                      
Audits:                                                                             
  The Department of Housing and Urban Development reserves the right to audit       
  the accounts of either the lender or borrower in order to determine their         
  compliance and conformance with HUD regulations and standards.                    
Records:                                                                            
  Lenders are required to service and maintain records in accordance with           
  acceptable lending practices of prudent lending institutions and the HUD          
  regulations.                                                                      
Account Identification:                                                             
  86-4077-0-3-371.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  (Loans insured) FY 07 $5,477,300; FY 08 est $7,500,000; and FY 09 est             


                                                                               11-08
  $10,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Loan sizes typically range from $250,000 to $1,500,000, with an average of
  $1,375,000. Project sizes range from 20 units to 290 units with an average of
  204 units.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In Fiscal Year 2007 HUD insured 4 mortgages with 819 units/beds, totaling $5.5
  million. It is estimated that the Department will insure approximately the same
  number of mortgages in Fiscal Year 2008.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  24 CFR, 241 et seq.; HUD Handbook 4585.1 "Supplemental Loans for Project
  Mortgage Insurance," Section 241, no charge, available on HUDCLIPS at
  http://www.hudclips.org.
Regional or Local Office:
  All projects are processed in Regional and Local Multifamily Hub or Program
  Center. Persons are encouraged to communicate with the nearest local HUD
  Multifamily Hub and Program Center listed at
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/mfh/mfbroch/hubs_pcs.cfm or contact the
  nearest HUD Field Office in the Catalog Address Appendix IV.
Headquarters Office:
  Office of Multifamily Development, Department of Housing and Urban
  Development, Washington, DC 20411. Telephone: (202) 708-2556. Use the
  same number for FTS.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/hsgmulti.cfm.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  14.129, Mortgage Insurance_Nursing Homes, Intermediate Care Facilities,
  Board and Care Homes and Assisted Living Facilities.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
14.155 MORTGAGE INSURANCE FOR THE PURCHASE OR
REFINANCING OF EXISTING MULTIFAMILY HOUSING
PROJECTS
   (Section 223(f)/207)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  HOUSING, DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORIZATION:
  National Housing Act, Section 223(f), as amended; Housing and Community
  Development Act of 1974, as amended, Public Law 93-383. 12 U.S.C. 1715n.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide mortgage insurance to HUD-approved lenders for the purchase or
  refinancing of existing multifamily housing projects, whether conventionally
  financed or subject to federally insured mortgages at the time of application for
  mortgage insurance. The program allows for the long term mortgages that can be
  financed with Ginnie Mae Mortgage-Backed Securities.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Guaranteed/Insured Loans.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Section 223(f) insures lenders against loss on mortgage loans. These loans may
  be used to purchase or refinance existing multifamily housing projects. Only
  projects not requiring substantial rehabilitation are acceptable under this section.
  The estimated cost of required repairs may not exceed 15 percent of the
  estimated value after repairs or $6,500 per unit adjusted by a high cost factor,
  whichever is greater and may not involve the replacement of more than one
  major system. The program has statutory per unit mortgage limits which vary
  according to the size of the unit, the type of structure, and the location of the
  project. There are also loan-to-value and debt service limitations. Prevailing
  wage requirements under the Davis-Bacon Act do not apply to this program.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Mortgagors may be either private or public. The property must consist of not less
  than 5 living units and must meet the following criteria: (1) the mortgage cannot
  exceed 85 percent of the HUD estimated value of the project; (2) three years
  must have elapsed from the later date of completion of project construction or
  substantial rehabilitation, or the beginning occupancy date of application for
  mortgage insurance; (3) the remaining economic life of the project must be long
  enough to permit at least a ten-year mortgage term or 75 percent of the estimated
  life of the physical improvements.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  All persons are eligible to occupy such projects subject to normal occupancy
  restrictions.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Documentation regarding the characteristics of the property and the
  qualifications of the purchaser or existing mortgagor in refinance projects are
  assembled by the mortgagee and submitted with the application. Management
  plan must be submitted at time of application for commitment. This program is
                                                                                    307
