  update the determination of acceptability of project site and market, correctness
  of zoning, and effect on environment, as well as to determine the value of site, 
  total development cost, and financial feasibility.

Deadlines:                                                                         
  Applications must be submitted within the time period specified in the Notice of 
  Fund Availability (or Funding Notification), usually 60 to 90 days.              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                
  At the fund reservation stage, the Sponsor usually is advised of the decision    
  within 4 to 5 months from the end of the application period, but in any event,   
  usually by the end of the same fiscal year (September 30).                       
Appeals:                                                                           
  During the period of competition, Sponsors whose applications are rejected by    
  the HUD Field Office due to noncompliance with program requirements, have        
  the right to appeal the rejection within 14 calendar days from the date of HUD's 
  written notice of rejection. Also, HUD Field Offices may issue Notices of Intent 
  to Cancel a Fund Reservation to Sponsors/Owners who have been approved for a     
  fund reservation, but whose projects are not progressing towards a construction  
  start in a satisfactory manner and within the term of the fund reservation,      
  including any approved extensions of time. Under these circumstances,            
  Sponsors/Owners have the right to appeal HUD's Notice of Intent to Cancel a      
  Fund Reservation within 30 days of HUD's written notice.                         
Renewals:                                                                          
  Not applicable to Section 202 capital advances. However, Project Rental          
  Assistance Contracts may be renewed for up to a one-year term after the initial  
  3-year term subject to the availability of funds.                                
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                 
  This program has maintenance of effort (MOE) requirements, see funding           
  agency for further details. Theformula used for allocating funds Consists of one 
  data element from the 2000 Census: Number of one-person elderly renter           
  households (householder age 62 and over) with income at or below the             
  applicable Section 8 very low-income limit, and with housing condition. No       
  match required.                                                                  
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                             
  The capital advance is not repayable so long as the project is available to very 
  low income elderly for 40 years. Project Rental Assistance Contract payments     
  may not exceed 3 years. However, contracts are renewable for up to a one-year    
  term based on availability of funds. Projects are expected to start construction 
  within 18 months of the date of the fund reservation, with limited provision for 
  extensions. Funds will be advanced on a monthly basis during construction for    
  work in place.                                                                   
Reports:                                                                           
  Any change in the Owner during the period of the capital advance must be         
  approved by HUD. All Owners will be required to submit a financial statement     
  and form HUD-96010 Program Outcome Logic Model to HUD on an annual               
  basis.                                                                           
Audits:                                                                            
  HUD reserves the right to audit the accounts of the Owner in order to determine  
  compliance and conformance with HUD regulations and standards.                   
Records:                                                                           
  Regular financial reports are required. Owners must service and maintain         
  records in accordance with acceptable mortgage practices and HUD regulations.    
  Owners also must supply those records necessary to indicate compliance with      
                                                                                   
  the project rental assistance contract.

                                                                                   
Account Identification:

                                                                                   
  86-0164-0-3-371; 86-4588-0-3-371; 86-0320-0-3-371.

Obligations:                                                                       
  (Obligations) FY 07 $750,264,401; FY 08 est $795,262,000; and FY 09 est          
                                                                                   
  $791,303,000.

                                                                                   
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

                                                                                   
  $717,700 to $12,560,400.

PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                           
  In fiscal year 2007, HUD funded 3,857 units under this program. HUD              
  anticipates a similar level of funding in fiscal year 2008.                      
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                           
  24 CFR 891; HUD Handbooks 4571.3 REV-1 and 4571.5; and Notice H 96-              
  102, as extended.                                                                
Regional or Local Office:                                                          
  Contact the appropriate HUD office listed in the Catalog Address Appendix IV.    
Headquarters Office:                                                               
  Office Housing Assistance and Grants Administration, Department of Housing       
  and Urban Development, Washington, DC 20410. Telephone: (202) 708-3000.          
Web Site Address:                                                                  
  http://www.hud.gov and www.grants.gov.                                           
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                  
  14.181, Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities; 14.195, Section 8      
  Housing Assistance Payments Program_Special Allocations.                         
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                       
  Not applicable.                                                                  
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                  
  Not applicable.                                                                  


                                                                              11-08
14.159 SECTION 245 GRADUATED PAYMENT
MORTGAGE PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  HOUSING, DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORIZATION:
  National Housing Act of 1934, Section 245, Public Law 73-479; Housing and
  Community Development Act of 1974, Section 308, Public Law 93-383, as
  amended; Housing and Community Development Amendments of 1979, Section
  245(b).
OBJECTIVES:
  To facilitate early home ownership for households that expect their incomes to
  rise. Program allows homeowners to make smaller monthly payments initially
  and to increase their size gradually over time.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Guaranteed/Insured Loans.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  HUD insures lenders against loss on mortgage loans. These mortgage loans may
  be used by owner-occupant mortgagors to finance the purchase of proposed,
  under construction, or existing single family housing, and condominiums.
  Maximum insurable mortgage is the property's sales price (or appraised value, if
  less)exclusive of any borrower paid closing cost multiplied by a percent that is
  determined by the sales price or value if less and the average closing cost for the
  State or 97 percent of the appraised value and closing costs of the property,
  minus all of the deferred interest which would accrue during the graduated term.
  This determines the maximum mortgage that FHA will insure, provided the
  mortgagor makes a cash investment of at least 3 percent into the property which
  may include closing costs.
Applicant Eligibility:
  All persons intending to occupy the property are eligible to apply for Section
  245(a).
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Individuals/families.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Documentation regarding the characteristics of the property and the
  qualifications of the applicant are assembled by the mortgagee and submitted
  with the application. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB
  Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Application conference with the mortgage lender submitting the application is
  suggested. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-
  102. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applications are submitted for review and approval or disapproval to the local
  HUD Field Office through a HUD-approved lending institution. This program is
  excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-110.
Award Procedure:
  See Application Procedure.
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Varies.
Appeals:
  HUD will state the reasons for refusing an application. The applicant may
  reapply subject to concurrence of the lender.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Formula and Matching Requirements: Formula and Matching Requirements:
  For most families, the maximum amount of the loan is the property's sales price
  (or appraised value, if less) exclusive of any borrower paid closing cost
  multiplied by a percent that is determined by the sales price or value, if less and
  the average closing cost for the State. This determines the maximum mortgage
  that FHA will insure, provided the mortgagor makes a cash investment of at
  least 3 percent into the property, which may include closing costs. The
  downpayment is the difference between the maximum loan amount and the
  purchase price of the home. In addition to the downpayment, the purchaser must
  pay for all items of prepaid expense. Risk based premiums are collected
  including (1) an upfront premium that may be financed and (2) a periodic
  premium that is paid monthly. The loan origination charge by the mortgagee
  varies, but may not exceed one percent of the total mortgage (minus the
  mortgage insurance premium, if being financed). Mortgagors may be charged
  appraisal and inspection fees in accordance with fee schedules established by
  HUD.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The term of the mortgage is limited to 30 years.
Reports:
  Defaults in meeting the mortgage terms must be reported. All approved
  mortgagees at any time upon request by HUD must furnish a copy of their latest
  financial statement.
                                                                                    309
