  qualifications of the mortgagor are assembled by the mortgagee and submitted    
  with the application. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB          
  Circular No. A-87.                                                              
Preapplication Coordination:                                                      
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                  
Application Procedure:                                                            
  Application is submitted for review and approval or disapproval to the HUD      
  Homeownership Center having jurisdiction over the area where the property is    
  located through a HUD approved lending institution. This program is excluded    
  from coverage under OMB Circular Nos. A-102 and A-110.                          
Award Procedure:                                                                  
  See Application Procedure.                                                      
Deadlines:                                                                        
  None.                                                                           
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                               
  Varies.                                                                         
Appeals:                                                                          
  HUD will state the reasons for refusing an application. The applicant may       
  reapply subject to concurrence of the lender.                                   
Renewals:                                                                         
  Not applicable.                                                                 
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                
  For most families, the maximum amount of the loan is the same as under 203(b)   
  - program 14.117. The unit's share of the project mortgage is deducted from the 
  maximum potential amount to determine the maximum Section 203(n) loan. As       
  of July 1, 1991, risk-based mortgage insurance premiums will be collected       
  including: 1) an up-front premium which may be financed and 2) a periodic       
  premium which is paid monthly. The origination charge by the mortgagee          
  varies, but may not exceed one percent of the total mortgage amount.            
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                            
  The maximum mortgage term is 30 years or the remaining term of the blanket      
  mortgage covering the cooperative development, whichever is less.               
Reports:                                                                          
  Defaults in meeting the mortgage terms must be reported. Any approved           
  mortgagee, at any time upon request by HUD, must furnish a copy of its latest   
  financial statement.                                                            
Audits:                                                                           
  The Department of Housing and Urban Development reserves the right to audit     
  the account of the mortgagee to determine its compliance and conformance with   
  HUD regulations and standards.                                                  
Records:                                                                          
  Mortgagees are required to service and maintain records in accordance with      
  acceptable mortgage practices of prudent lending institutions and the HUD       
  regulations.                                                                    
Account Identification:                                                           
  86-4587-0-3-371.                                                                
Obligations:                                                                      
  (Mortgages insured) Reported under program 14.117.                              
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

                                                                                  
  See Uses and Use Restrictions.

                                                                                  
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

                                                                                  
  There has been very little activity under this program in recent years.

                                                                                  
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

  HUD 4240.3, Section 203(n) Application Through Insurance (Single Family) no     
  charge; 24 CFR 203.43c and 203.437.                                             
                                                                                  
Regional or Local Office:

                                                                                  
  Persons are encouraged to contact the Homeownership Center serving their State

                                                                                  
  (see http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/sfh/hoc/hsghocs.cfm) or the nearest HUD

                                                                                  
  Office. See Catalog Address Appendix IV for a list of Offices.

                                                                                  
Headquarters Office:                                                              
  None.                                                                           
Web Site Address:                                                                 
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/sfh/ins/singlefamily.cfm.                        
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                 
  14.117, Mortgage Insurance_Homes; 14.132, Mortgage Insurance_Purchase of        
  Sales-Type Cooperative Housing Units.                                           
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                      
  Not applicable.

                                                                                  
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

                                                                                  
  Not applicable.

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
14.164 OPERATING ASSISTANCE FOR TROUBLED                                          
MULTIFAMILY HOUSING PROJECTS                                                      
                                                                                  
   (Flexible Subsidy Fund; Troubled Projects)                                     
                                                                                  
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                   
  HOUSING, DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT                            
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                    
  Housing and Community Development Amendments of 1978, as amended,               
  Public Law 95-557, 12 U.S.C. 17152-1.



                                                                             11-08
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide loans to restore or maintain the physical and financial soundness, to
  assist in the management and to maintain the low-to moderate-income character
  of certain projects assisted or approved for assistance under the National
  Housing Act or under the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Flexible Subsidy funds can be lent to eligible projects in an amount based on the
  project's total needs. It may be used to correct physical deficiencies resulting
  from deferral of regular maintenance; to reduce deficiencies in replacement
  reserve funds; and to fund operating deficits. Flexible Subsidy assistance is
  limited to projects assisted under Section 236 or Section 221 (d) (5) of the
  National Housing Act; those assisted under Section 101 of the HUD Act of 1965
  (Rent Supplement) or when the Section 101 assistance has been converted to
  Section 8 Loan Management Set Aside (LMSA); direct loans at below market
  interest rates made under Section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959; housing
  assistance payments made under Section 23 of the U.S. Housing Act of 1937 or
  Section 8 of the U.S. Housing Act of 1937 after conversion from assistance
  under the Section 236 Rental Assistance Payments Program or the Rent
  Supplement Program. Some of the Flexible Subsidy resources are being used in
  connection with Safe Neighborhood Action Plans.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible owners are nonprofits, with existing loans from HUD under the Section
  202 program. Public bodies do not qualify for this program. Field Offices
  recommend projects to be assisted.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Tenants will benefit because this will allow decent, safe and sanitary conditions
  in projects. Additionally, this program will guarantee good management in
  those projects selected.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Documentation regarding the characteristics of the property and the
  qualifications of managing agents and owners are assembled by the owners and
  submitted to the Field Office . This program is excluded from coverage under
  OMB Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Assurance must be gained from the appropriate unit of local government that
  essential services will be provided to the project; the real estate taxes will be
  assessed in a manner consistent with normal assessment procedures; and that
  assistances not inconsistent with local plans and priorities. This program is
  excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102. This program is
  excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Because of the limited funding, Flexible Subsidy funds are strictly reserved for
  the emergency needs of 202 projects. Such projects, must have been in
  occupancy for at least fifteen (15) years and have emergency health and safety
  needs. Deferred maintenance or items that did not exist at the time the project
  was finally endorsed, e.g., adding air conditioning to an entire project, will not
  be approved for Flexible Subsidy Operating Assistance funding.
Award Procedure:
  For most of the Flexible Subsidy assistance, funds are assigned from HUD
  Headquarters to the HUD Field Offices, for specific projects identified by the
  Field Offices as having priority based on established criteria.
Deadlines:
  Funds are awarded until exhausted.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  None.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  No contribution is required for nonprofit sponsors.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Generally on a monthly basis. Operating Assistance is usually for a one year
  period and is paid according to pre-approved work schedule. Capital
  Improvement Loan proceeds are disbursed until construction is completed.
Reports:
  Quarterly assessment and review of owner performance. Monthly reporting of
  individual disbursements and action items. Periodic on-site visits. Owners must
  electronically file an annual financial statement with HUD, audited and prepared
  in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principals and Generally
  Accepted Auditing Standards.
Audits:
  Federal audits will be made in accordance with the policies of FMC 73-2 to
  ensure that funds have been applied efficiently, economically, and effectively.
Records:
  Owner keeps all records relating to MIO Plan transactions for at least 5 years.
  Field Office retains all records relating to assistance for 5 years.
Account Identification:
                                                                                   311
