  86-4044-0-3-604.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  FY 07 est not avaialbe; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not available.       
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  See Uses and Use Restrictions.                                                      
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  No activity is anticipated in Fiscal Year 2008.                                     
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  24 CFR part 219, HUD Handbook 4355.1.                                               
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Persons are encouraged to communicate with the nearest local HUD Multifamily        
  Hubs and Program Centers listed at                                                  
  http://www.hud.gov/fha/mfh/fhamie/mieforms/lkmfdirs.html or the nearest HUD         
  Field Office listed in the Appendix IV of the Catalog.                              
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Office of Housing Assistance and Grants Administration, Department of               
  Housing and Urban Development, Washington, DC 20420. Telephone: (202)               
  708-2866. Use the same number for FTS.                                              
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/mfh/progdesc/progdesc.cfm.                           
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Section 202 projects for the elderly or disabled with emergency health and safety   
  problems whose sponsors do not have the necessary funds available to cure the       
  immediate problems.                                                                 
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  First and foremost the applicant must be able to demonstrate that the requested     
  items meet the guideline for emergency. After which, assistance will be granted     
  only if the: (1) assistance, in concert with one or more other relief tools, will   
  restore or maintain physical and financial soundness and the low-or moderate-       
  income nature of the project; (2) assistance is less costly to the Federal          
  government than any other available; (3) project owner, except for nonprofit        
  projects, agrees to provide assistance to the project; (4) project can be made      
  structurally sound with this assistance; (5) project management is at least         
  satisfactory; and (6) project is operated and managed in accordance with the        
  terms of the Management Improvement and Operation (MIO) Plan designed to            
  reduce the operating costs of the project.                                          
                                                                                      
14.167 MORTGAGE INSURANCE-TWO YEAR OPERATING                                          
                                                                                      
LOSS LOANS, SECTION 223(D)                                                            
      (Two Year Operating Loss Loans)                                                 
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  HOUSING, DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT                                
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  National Housing Act, as amended, Public Law 90- 448, as amended, Public            
  Law 91-152, 12 U.S.C. 1715x.                                                        
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To insure a separate loan covering operating losses incurred during the first 2     
  years following the date of completion or any other 2-year period occurring         
  within 10 years following the date of completion of a multifamily project with a    
  HUD-insured first mortgage.                                                         
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Guaranteed/Insured Loans.                                                           
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Eligibility is limited to currently insured HUD projects. Section 223(d) insures a  
  loan to cover the excess of expenses over project gross income incurred during      
  the first two years following the date of completion of the project or for any      
  other two-year period within 10 years of project completion, for such amounts       
  and upon such terms and conditions as HUD may prescribe. A project can              
  receive both loans but not for the same two year period. The loan is insured by     
  HUD under the same section as the original mortgage in an amount not                
  exceeding the excess of operating expenses over project income. The loan term       
  is limited to the unexpired term of the original mortgage. This program requires    
  appropriated credit subsidy, which is limited.                                      
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Owners of a multifamily project or facility subject to a mortgage insured by        
  HUD are eligible to apply.                                                          
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Individuals/families and property owner.                                            
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  A formal application for insurance accompanied by a financial statement             
  prepared by an independent certified public accountant or independent public

  accountant. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No.           
  A-87.

Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  The HUD Multifamily Hub and Program Center will hold a preliminary

  conference with the sponsor to provide general application guidance. This           
                                                                                      


312                                                                             11-08

  program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102. This
  program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  The sponsor submits a formal application through a HUD-approved mortgagee
  to the local HUD Multifamily Hub or Program Center. This program is
  excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-110.
Award Procedure:
  Information submitted by the applicant will be reviewed and analyzed using data
  available through office records, field review and general current working
  knowledge of the project and background. A determination is then made as to
  the maximum insurable loan amount.
Deadlines:
  Application shall be made within three years after the end of the two-year
  operating loss period for the 2-year loan. A loan covering losses occurring
  within 10 years of project completion must be made within 10 years of the end
  of the 2-year loss period covered by the loan.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Processing time will be dependent upon the degree of preparation by the sponsor
  and HUD Multifamily Hub or Program Center workload.
Appeals:
  If an application for operating loss loan is refused, HUD will state the reason for
  the refusal.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The amount of the 2-year loan shall be limited to the lesser of (1) The amount of
  the operating loss loan requested; (2) the amount of the operating loss
  established by HUD review or, (3) the maximum loss supported by debt service
  limitation. The 10-year loan shall be further limited to 80 percent of
  unreimbursed funds invested in the project.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The loan may not exceed the remaining term of the insured mortgage.
Reports:
  Defaults in meeting the mortgage terms must be reported.
Audits:
  HUD reserves the right to audit the accounts of the mortgagee or mortgagor to
  determine compliance and conformance with HUD regulations and standards.
Records:
  Mortgagees are required to service and maintain records in accordance with
  acceptable practices of prudent lending institutions and the HUD regulations.
Account Identification:
  86-4077-0-3-371.
Obligations:
  (Loans insured) FY 07 $7,044,000; FY 08 est $11,250,000; and FY 09 est
  $15,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Loan sizes range from $750,000 to $7,000,000 with an average of $2.0 million.
  Project sizes range from 117 to 210 units with an average of 151 units.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In Fiscal Year 2007 HUD insured mortgages for one operating loss loan with
  210 units/beds, totaling $7.0 million. It is estimated that approximately the same
  number of projects will be insured in Fiscal Year 2008.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  24 CFR 207.4(f) et seq; HUD Handbook 4470.1 REV-2 CHG-1 (Chapter 17),
  "Operating Loss Loans", no charge, available on HUDCLIPS at
  http://www.hudclips.org.
Regional or Local Office:
  All projects are processed in HUD Multifamily Hubs or Program Centers.
  Persons are encouraged to communicate with the nearest local Multifamily Hub
  or Program Center. These offices are listed under HUD resources on the
  Multifamily industry website at:
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/mfh/mfbroch/hubs_pcs.cfm.
Headquarters Office:
  Office of Multifamily Development, Department of Housing and Urban
  Development, 451 7th Street, S.W., Washington, DC 20410. Telephone: (202)
  708-1142. Use the same number for FTS.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/hsgmulti.cfm.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
14.168 LAND SALES-CERTAIN SUBDIVIDED LAND
   (Interstate Land Sales Registration Program)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  HOUSING, DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
