AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Interstate Land Sales Full Disclosure Act, as amended, Public Law 90-448, Title     
  XIV, 15 U.S.C. 1701; Public Law 96-153.                                             
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To provide consumer protection by prohibiting fraudulent practices and              
  requiring full disclosure of conditions surrounding the purchase of subdivided      
  land covered by the Act.                                                            
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Dissemination of Technical Information; Investigation of Complaints.                
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Developers that sell, lease, or offer to sell or lease land divided into 100 or more
  nonexempt lots, using any means or instruments of transportation or                 
  communication in interstate commerce or the mails must register with the            
  Department of Housing and Urban Development. The developers must provide            
  all purchasers with a copy of a Property Report which sets forth important facts    
  about the development and the developer. Failure to provide a Property Report       
  prior to the purchaser signing a purchase agreement subjects the developer to       
  statutory and regulatory penalties. Anti-fraud provisions of the Act are            
  applicable to subdivisions of 25 lots or more. Failure to comply with the anti-     
  fraud provisions subjects developers to civil and criminal penalties. Other         
  consumer protection provisions include a seven-day cooling-off period and           
  required contractual provisions. The Act and regulations provide exemption          
  from full disclosure where a subdivision meets certain requirements.                
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Certain land developers are required to submit a filing in compliance with

  specific registration requirements.                                                 
Beneficiary Eligibility:

  Any person who purchases a lot in a covered subdivision is entitled to certain      
  rights and remedies.                                                                
                                                                                      
Credentials/Documentation:

                                                                                      
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.

                                                                                      
Preapplication Coordination:

                                                                                      
  Not applicable. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.

Application Procedure:                                                                
  Developers wishing to register a subdivision should contact the Office of           
  RESPA and Interstate Land Sales, Department of Housing and Urban                    
  Development, 451 7th Street, S.W., Washington, DC 20410. Developers file an         
                                                                                      
  extensive statement of record (including the Property Report) disclosing all

                                                                                      
  pertinent facts about the land, its ownership, control, amenities, restrictions,

                                                                                      
  nature of purchase or lease transaction, and other required information. Specific

                                                                                      
  requirements set forth in Federal Register, Title 24, Chapter X, Part 1710 as

                                                                                      
  amended by Public Law 96-153. This program is excluded from coverage under

                                                                                      
  OMB Circular Nos. A-102 and A-110.

                                                                                      
Award Procedure:

                                                                                      
  An effective date is issued after all materials have been submitted and found to

                                                                                      
  be in compliance with the registration requirements.

                                                                                      
Deadlines:

                                                                                      
  No deadlines. An effective date of registration must be issued by HUD before

                                                                                      
  the developer commences any non-exempt sales or lease program.

                                                                                      
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

                                                                                      
  Not applicable. The Federal government does not issue approval/disapproval of

                                                                                      
  subdivision or offering. HUD must notify developers of deficiencies in

                                                                                      
  disclosure materials within 30 days after receipt. Filings become effective at the

                                                                                      
  end of 30 days or can be declared effective upon correction of deficiencies.

                                                                                      
Appeals:

                                                                                      
  Any developer receiving a deficiency notice, notice of proceeding, suspension

                                                                                      
  order, notice of exemption eligibility termination or notice of civil money

                                                                                      
  penalties may request a formal hearing.

                                                                                      
Renewals:

  An annual report of activity accompanied by any applicable amendments and           
  fees, must be submitted within 30 days of the annual anniversary of the effective   
  date of the initial filing.                                                         
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Reports:                                                                              
  An annual report of activity within 30 days of the annual anniversary of the        
  effective date of the filing. Financial statements are due within 120 days after the
  close of the developer's fiscal year.                                               
Audits:                                                                               
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Records:                                                                              
  The developer must retain copies of Property Report receipts for a period of        
  three years from the date of execution or the term of the contract, whichever is    
  longer.                                                                             
Account Identification:                                                               
  86-5270-0-2-376.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  FY 07 $665,000; FY 08 est $650,000; and FY 09 est $650,000.                         
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
                                                                                 11-08
  Not applicable.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  During Fiscal Year 2007, HUD received 1305 filings, 846 Annual Reports of
  Activity, 36 requests for exemption from the registration requirements and 40
  requests for Voluntary Suspension of existing registrations. Investigation of
  violators of the Act led to settlement agreements that are posted on web site.
  Projected program activity is expected to remain the same in FY 2008.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Regulations and Exemption Guidelines appear in 24 CFR Parts 1700, 1710,
  1715, 1720, and 1730.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Office of RESPA and Interstate Land Sales, Department of Housing and Urban
  Development, 451 7th Street, SW., Ivy M. Jackson, Room 9154, Washington,
  DC 20410. Telephone: (202) 708-0502.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/sfh/ils/ilshome.cfm.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
14.169 HOUSING COUNSELING ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  HOUSING, DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORIZATION:
  Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968, as amended.
OBJECTIVES:
  To counsel homeowners, homebuyers, prospective renters and tenants under
  HUD, conventional and other government programs in improving their housing
  conditions and in meeting the responsibilities of tenancy and homeownership.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  To provide housing counseling grants to HUD-approved local housing
  counseling agencies; to HUD-approved national and regional intermediaries; and
  to State housing finance agencies. Grants provide a variety of housing
  counseling services, including single family home buying, homeownership,
  mortgage default, HECM, rental, and rental delinquency under HUD and other
  programs.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Qualified public or private nonprofit organizations. There are three categories of
  eligible applicants: (1) HUD-approved local housing counseling agency; (2)
  HUD-approved national or regional intermediary; and (3) State housing finance
  agency.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Individuals, groups of individuals, and families who are renters, tenants,
  homeowners, and home buyers under HUD, conventional and other government
  programs.
Credentials/Documentation:
  To be eligible to apply for a housing counseling grant through the SuperNOFA,
  agencies, except state housing finance agencies must be HUD approved. HUD-
  approval must be secured by the SuperNOFA publication date. To become a
  HUD-approved housing counseling agency, applicants must (1) meet the
  requirements of the Housing Counseling Handbook 7610.1 as revised; (2)
  consult the HUD website to learn about the eligibility requirements for
  becoming HUD-approved and obtain application (available on the HUD website
  at www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/sfh/hcc/hcc_homes.cfm); and (3) return application
  to the HUD Homeownership Center (HOC) with jurisdiction, or, if appropriate,
  HUD Headquarters.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The availability of funds (HUD SuperNOFA) is announced in the Federal
  Register. There is no application kit. Potential applicants and community-based
  organizations are invited to view and participate in a satellite broadcast that
  reviews the application process. For a copy of the SuperNOFA, or for the
  satellite broadcast schedule, applicants can visit the HUD website
  (www.hud.gov) or call the SuperNOFA Information Center at 1-800-HUD-8929.
   Persons with hearing or speech impairments may call the Center's TTY number
  at 1-800-HUD-2209. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O.
  12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applicants must submit by the required date the items and forms requested in
  the SuperNOFA, such as a description of the housing counseling services to be
  provided, and indicators by which benefits / impact will be measured.
Award Procedure:
  Applicants will be evaluated competitively and ranked against all other
  applicants that applied in the same funding category. National and regional
                                                                                   313
