  intermediaries are rated and ranked by HUD Headquarters. Local agencies and       
  State housing finance agencies are rated and ranked by the Homeownership          
  Center (HOC) with jurisdiction. A funding formula outlined in the SuperNOFA

  is used to calculate awards. This program is subject to the administrative        
  requirements established in OMB Circular A-102, Grants and Cooperative

  Agreements with State and Local Governments, which was implemented by 24

                                                                                    
  CFR part 85; OMB Circular A-110, Uniform Administrative Requirements for          
  Grants and Other Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals

  and Other Nonprofit Organizations, which was implemented by 24 CFR part 84;       
  and OMB Circular A-133, Audits of States, Local Governments and Nonprofit         
  Organizations, which was implemented by 24 CFR Parts 84 and 85. Grants            
  awarded under this program are also subject to the cost principles in OMB         
  Circular A-87 for State and local governments and Indian tribal governments       
  and OMB Circular A-122 for nonprofit organizations.                               
Deadlines:                                                                          
  Due dates and times for the receipt of applications for housing counseling grants 
  are specified in the application.                                                 
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  Award announcements typically occur 5-7 months after applications are             
  received.                                                                         
Appeals:                                                                            
  Applicants for housing counseling grants may appeal their denial of a grant       
  award or the insufficiency of the grant amount to HUD.                            
Renewals:                                                                           
  Grantees must submit a new application and compete through the SuperNOFA          
  each year.                                                                        
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  Formula is outlined in the SuperNOFA. This program has no matching                
  requirements. However, applicants are required to demonstrate funding from        
  other resources.                                                                  
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  Funding assistance is for a discrete period of time, generally 1 year. Grantees   
  invoice HUD on a periodic basis for housing counseling services delivered.        
  Payments of grant funds are subsequently made to grantees via direct              
  deposit/electronic funds transfer (DD/EFT).                                       
Reports:                                                                            
  Grantees must file periodic invoices including semi-annual performance reports    
  as well as final reports pursuant to grant agreement. Moreover, Form HUD-         
  96010, Housing Counseling Agency Fiscal Year Activity Report is required at       
  year-end from funded agencies.                                                    
Audits:                                                                             
  HUD-approved housing counseling organizations are subject to a biennial           
  performance review by HUD to retain status as a HUD- approved counseling          
  agency.                                                                           
Records:                                                                            
  As required in grant document and Housing Counseling Handbook, HUD                
  7610.1 REV-4 dated August 1995.                                                   
Account Identification:                                                             
  86-0205-0-1-604.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  (Grants) FY 07 $38,580,000; FY 08 est $47,000,000; and FY 09 est                  
  $60,000,000.                                                                      
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  Range and Average of Financial Assistance: For Fiscal Year 2006, the grants       
  ranged from $20,000, the minimum award for a local agency, to $4 million, the     
  maximum award for an intermediary. The average local agency counseling grant      
  was approximately $36,000. The average intermediary award was                     
  approximately $1.2 million.                                                       
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  For fiscal year 2007,agencies participating in the program provided having        
  counseling services to approximately 1,700,000 households.                        
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  Regulation issued September 28, 2007 at 24 CFR Part 214. The revised              
  Housing Counseling Program Handbook 7610.1 REV 4, Change 1, was                   
  distributed in October 1997 to all HUD Offices. Copies are available by           
  contacting Headquarters at (800) 767-7468.                                        
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  Persons are encouraged to contact the Homeownership Center serving their State    
  (see http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/sfh/hoc/hsghocs.cfm), or the nearest local    
  HUD Office. See Catalog address Appendix IV for a list of offices.                
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Program Support Division, Office of Insured Single Family Housing,                
  Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 7th Street, S.W.,                
  Washington, DC 20410. Telephone: (202) 708-0317.                                  
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/sfh/hcc/hcc_home.cfm.                              
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  14.316, Housing Counseling Training Program.                                      
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  Housing Partnership Network-$2.14 million awarded October 4, 2007.                


314                                                                           11-08

CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Outlined in SuperNOFA.
14.171 MANUFACTURED HOME CONSTRUCTION AND
SAFETY STANDARDS
   (Manufactured Housing)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  HOUSING, DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORIZATION:
  National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act, Title
  VI, Public Law 93-383; 42 U.S.C. 5401 et seq.; as amended; Public Laws 95-
  128, 96-399, 100-242, 102-550 and 106-569.
OBJECTIVES:
  To protect the quality, durability, safety and affordability of manufactured
  homes; to facilitate the availability of affordable manufactured homes and to
  increase home ownership for all Americans; to provide for the establishment of
  practical, uniform, and, to the extent possible, performance-based Federal
  construction standards for manufactured homes; to encourage innovative and
  cost-effective construction techniques for manufactured homes; and to protect
  residents of manufactured homes with respect to personal injuries and the
  amount of insurance costs and property damages in manufactured housing.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Dissemination of Technical Information; Investigation of Complaints.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Manufacturers who build "manufactured homes" as defined by the Act, for sale
  in the United States are subject to the Act and must comply with preemptive
  Federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards (24 CFR 3280).
  Designs of homes are reviewed for compliance, and homes are inspected during
  construction by HUD-approved third-party inspection agencies. Consumers
  receiving defective homes have recourse, ranging from the right to be notified
  that their home contains a defect, to correction by the manufacturer of serious
  defects and imminent safety hazards. Retailers are prohibited from selling homes
  which they know are not in compliance with the Federal Standards. As required
  by 2000 amendments to the Act, the Department has now established installation
  standards for siting of new manufactured homes. These installation standards
  cover joining of sections and anchoring, as well as stabilizing and support
  systems. As required by the same amendments to the Act, the Department has
  also established a national manufactured home dispute resolution program.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Any purchaser of a manufactured home built on or after June 15, 1976, for
  residential use is automatically covered by the program.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Any purchaser of a residential manufactured home built on or after June 15,
  1976.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None required for the purchaser. This program is excluded from coverage under
  OMB Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Not required. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Manufacturers must have designs for each manufactured home model to be
  produced, reviewed and approved by a HUD- approved third-party design
  inspection agency. Each home must be inspected during at least one phase of
  construction and every stage of manufacturing process inspected by a third-party
  in-plant inspection entity. A purchaser may file a complaint with HUD or a
  HUD-approved State Administrative Agency (SAA). This program is excluded
  from coverage under OMB Circular Nos. A-102 and A-110.
Award Procedure:
  Unless defects or noncompliance with the standards are found in homes,
  manufacturers may label and retailers may sell the units. If a purchaser
  complains, HUD or an SAA may request an investigation by the manufacturer or
  the dealer, and may then initiate enforcement actions under applicable
  regulations (24 CFR 3282). As required by 2000 amendments to the Act, the
  Department has established a dispute resolution program to provide for the
  timely resolution of disputes between manufacturers, installers, and retailers
  regarding responsibility for repairs. Consumers may file complaints and
  otherwise participate in this program.
Deadlines:
  Each manufactured home must bear a manufacturer's certification label,
  certifying compliance with the Federal Standards, before the home can be sold to
  a retailer or purchaser.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Not applicable.
Appeals:
  A manufacturer may appeal a preliminary determination, and be granted a
  hearing or presentation of views by HUD or by a State Administrative Agency
  (SAA) whenever homes are identified as having "serious defects" or "imminent
  safety hazards," and notification or correction would be required under the
