  1983, Section 251, Public Law 98-181, 12 U.S.C. 1715z-16.                          
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To provide mortgage insurance for an adjustable rate mortgage which offers         
  lenders more assurance of long term profitability than a fixed rate mortgage,      
  while offering consumer protection features.                                       
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Guaranteed/Insured Loans.                                                          
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  HUD insures lenders against loss on mortgage loans. These loans may be used        
  to finance the purchase of proposed, under construction, or existing one- to four- 
  family housing as well as to refinance indebtedness on existing housing. The       
  maximum insurable mortgage loan for an occupant mortgagor is the same as           
  prescribed for Section 203(b) - program 14.117.                                    
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  All persons intending to occupy the property are eligible to apply.

Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Individuals/families.

Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Documentation regarding the characteristics of the property and the                
  qualifications of the mortgagor are assembled by the mortgagee and submitted

  with the application. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB             
  Circular No. A-87.                                                                 
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                     
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Application is submitted for review and approval or disapproval to the local       
  HUD Field Office through a HUD-approved lending institution. This program is       
  excluded from coverage under OMB Circular Nos. A-102 and A-110.                    
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  See Application Procedure.                                                         
Deadlines:                                                                           
  None.                                                                              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Varies.                                                                            
Appeals:                                                                             
  HUD will state the reasons for refusing an application. The applicant may          
  reapply subject to concurrence of the lender.                                      
Renewals:                                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  The maximum amount of the loan is the same as under Section 203(b) - Program       
  14.117. The down payment is the difference between the maximum loan                
  amount and the purchase price of the home. In addition to the down payment,        
  the purchaser must pay all items of prepaid expense. As of July 1, 1991, risk-     
  based mortgage insurance premiums will be collected including 1) an up-front       
  mortgage insurance premium which may be financed; and 2) a periodic                
  premium which is paid monthly. If the property is a condominium, the               
  mortgage insurance premium is one-half percent paid monthly. The loan              
  origination charge by the mortgagee varies, but may not exceed one percent of      
  the total mortgage (minus the mortgage insurance premium, if financed).            
  Mortgagors may be charged appraisal and inspection fees in accordance with fee     
  schedules established by HUD. The interest rate adjustments of the mortgage        
  may not increase more than one percent per year or five percent over the term of   
  the mortgage. There is no negative amortization. The mortgagor must receive a      
  disclosure statement explaining the adjustable rate features of their mortgage.    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  The mortgage term may extend for 30 years.                                         
Reports:                                                                             
  Defaults in meeting the mortgage terms must be reported. All approved              
  mortgagees at any time upon request by HUD must furnish a copy of their latest     
  financial statement.                                                               
Audits:                                                                              
  The Department of Housing and Urban Development reserves the right to audit        
  the account of the mortgagee to determine its compliance and conformance with      
  HUD regulations and standards.                                                     
Records:                                                                             
  Mortgagees are required to service and maintain records in accordance with

                                                                                     
  acceptable mortgage practices of prudent lending institutions and the HUD

                                                                                     
  regulations.

                                                                                     
Account Identification:                                                              
  86-4587-0-3-371.

                                                                                     
Obligations:

                                                                                     
  (Mortgages insured) Reported under program 14.117.

                                                                                     
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

  See Uses and Use Restrictions.                                                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  HUD insured 5,204 ARMs in FY 2007 (excludes ARMs reported under 14.183).           
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  24 CFR 203.49; 234.79.                                                             
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  Persons are encouraged to contact the Homeownership Center serving their State     


316                                                                            11-08

  (see http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/sfh/hoc/hsghocs.cfm) or the nearest local
  HUD Office. See Catalog Address Appendix IV for a list of Offices.
Headquarters Office:
  None.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/sfh/ins/singlefamily.cfm.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  14.117, Mortgage Insurance_Homes; 14.133, Mortgage Insurance_Purchase of
  Units in Condominiums; 14.159, Section 245 Graduated Payment Mortgage
  Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
14.181 SUPPORTIVE HOUSING FOR PERSONS WITH
DISABILITIES
   (Section 811)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  HOUSING, DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORIZATION:
  National Affordable Housing Act, Public Law 101-625, 42 U.S.C. 8013, 104
  Stat. 4324, 4331; Housing and Community Development Act of 1992, Public
  Law 102-550; the Rescissions Act, Public Law 104-19; American
  Homeownership and Economic Opportunity Act of 2000, Public Law 106-569;
  and the Revised Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 2007, Public Law 110-
  5.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide for supportive housing for very low-income persons with disabilities.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Capital advances may be used to construct, rehabilitate or acquire structures to
  be used as supportive housing for persons with disabilities. Project rental
  assistance is used to cover the difference between the HUD-approved operating
  costs of the project and the tenants' contributions toward rent (30 percent of
  adjusted income).
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible Sponsors are nonprofit organizations with a Section 501(c)(3) tax
  exemption from the Internal Revenue Service. Eligible Owner entities are
  nonprofit organizations with a 501(c)(3) tax exemption from the Internal
  Revenue Service and, if the proposed project involves mixed financing, for-
  profit limited partnerships with a nonprofit entity as the sole general partner.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Beneficiary Eligibility: Beneficiaries of housing developed under this program
  must be very low-income persons with a physical disability, developmental
  disability or chronic mental illness (18 years of age or older).
Credentials/Documentation:
  The nonprofit sponsor and owner must receive certification of eligibility from
  HUD. The owner must submit financial statements to support its ability to
  provide a minimum capital investment of 1/2 of 1 percent of the capital advance
  amount, up to a maximum of $10,000. This program is excluded from coverage
  under OMB Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Applicants must forward a copy of their applications to the appropriate state or
  local agency for a review of the supportive services plan and a completed
  certification from the agency as to whether the provision of services is well
  designed to meet the needs of the anticipated occupancy must be included in the
  applicant's submission of its application to the HUD field office. This program
  is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102. An environmental
  assessment is required for applications containing evidence of site control. This
  program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review
  of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  A Notice of Funding Availability is published in the Federal Register each fiscal
  year announcing the availability of funds to HUD Field Offices. Applicants
  must submit an electronic application through grants.gov in response to the
  Notice of Fund Availability. The application for capital advance is used to
  determine the eligibility of the applicant and proposed project as well as the
  acceptability of the site and market, correctness of zoning and the effect on the
  environment. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No.
  A-110.
Award Procedure:
  Applications are reviewed and selected for funding within the funding allocation
  of the particular HUD Field Office. Those selected for funding must meet basic
