  calculating the principle limit. This is determined at closing using a factor       
  corresponding to the age of the youngest borrower, the interest rate, and the       
  value of the home or the FHA limits, whichever is less. The average loan amount     
  for FY 2006 is $235,634.                                                            
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  In Fiscal Year 2006, 76,282 loans were Insured; in Fiscal Year 2007, 107,367        
  loans were insured.                                                                 
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  "Options for Elderly Homeowners: A Guide to Reserve Mortgages and Their             
  Alternatives," no charge; 24 CFR 200 and 206, HUD Handbook 4235.1, Rev. 1.          
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Persons are encouraged to contact the Homeownership Center serving their            
  State(see http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/sfh/hoc/hsghocs.cfm) or the nearest        
  HUD Office. See Catalog Address Appendix IV for a list of Offices.                  
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  451 7th Street, S.W., Washington, DC 20410. Telephone: (202) 708-2121.              
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/sfh/hecm/hecmabou.cfm.                               
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  None.                                                                               
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  None.                                                                               
                                                                                      
14.184 MORTGAGES INSURANCE FOR SINGLE ROOM                                            
OCCUPANCY (SRO) PROJECTS                                                              
                                                                                      
      (221(d) Single Room Occupancy)                                                  
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  HOUSING, DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT                                
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  National Housing Act, Section 221(d), 12 U.S.C. 1751(d); Section 223(g), 12         
  U.S.C. 1715 (g).                                                                    
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  The Single Room Occupancy (SRO) Program provides mortgage insurance for             
  multifamily properties consisting of single-room units. There are no Federal rent   
  subsidies involved with this SRO Program. It is aimed at those tenants who          
  have a source of income but are priced out of the rental apartment market. SRO      
  projects will generally require assistance from local governing bodies or           
  charitable organizations in order to reduce the rents to affordable levels.         
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Guaranteed/Insured Loans.                                                           
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  The SRO Program insures lenders against loss on mortgages used to finance           
  construction or substantial rehabilitation of projects consisting of five or more   
  units comprised primarily of one room residential units. Projects must be           
  designed primarily for residential use. Any commercial activity must be             
  compatible with the use of the project and primarily for the benefit of the         
  residents. Commercial space is limited to 10 percent of the total gross floor area  
  (20 percent in substantial rehabilitation projects), and 15 percent of gross rental 
  income in a project. Contractors for new construction and substantial               
  rehabilitation projects must comply with prevailing wage requirements under the     
  Davis-Bacon Act.                                                                    
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Eligible applicants may be nonprofit entities; builder/sellers teamed with a        
  nonprofit purchaser, a limited distribution entity, profit-motivated entities or    
  public entities. Cooperative lenders or investors are not eligible.                 
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Residents are subject to normal tenant selection procedures. There are no income    
  limits for admission.                                                               
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Along with the Application for Mortgage Insurance, the applicant must provide       
  a market profile demonstrating a clear need for the proposed SRO, experience        
  profiles as to SRO operation, a certification from the local government assuring    
  support of the project, and a relocation plan if needed.                            
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  For Traditional Application Process (TAP), the sponsor has an initial conference    
  with the local HUD Multifamily Hub and Program Center to determine the              
  preliminary feasibility of the project before a Site Appraisal and Market Analysis  
  (SAMA) Application (for new construction projects or feasibility application        
  (for substantial rehabilitation projects) is submitted. For Multifamily             
  Accelerated Processing (MAP), the sponsor works with the MAP-approved               
  lender who submits required exhibits for the pre-application state. This program    
  is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102. An environmental            
  assessment is required for this program. This program is eligible for coverage      
  under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An                
  applicant should consult the office or official designated as the single point of   
  contact in his or her State for more information on the process the State requires  


318                                                                             11-08

  to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program
  for review.
Application Procedure:
  The sponsor submits an application for a SAMA or feasibility application to the
  local HUD office for review. Following HUD's issuance of a SAMA or
  feasibility letter, the sponsor submits a firm commitment application through a
  HUD-approved mortgagee to the local HUD Multifamily Hub and Program
  Center for processing. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB
  Circular No. A-110.
Award Procedure:
  The project is reviewed to determine its feasibility. If the project meets program
  requirements, the HUD Multifamily Hub or Program Center issues a
  commitment to insure the mortgage.
Deadlines:
  Deadlines are established on a case-by-case basis by the local HUD Multifamily
  Hub or Program Center.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Processing time depends upon the degree of preparation by the sponsor and the
  workload of the HUD Multifamily Hub or Program Center.
Appeals:
  If an application for mortgage insurance is denied, HUD will state the reasons
  for the denial. If reapplication is desired, the applicant may reapply subject to
  concurrence of the lender.
Renewals:
  The term of a commitment to insure may be extended when more time is
  required to close the loan.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The maximum amount of a Section 221 (d)(4) profit motivated loan may not
  exceed 90 percent of the estimated replacement cost. The maximum amount of
  a Section 221(d)(3) non-profit loan is 100 percent of the estimated replacement
  cost. The mortgage insurance premium is one-half percent of the mortgage
  amount. The HUD fees for application processing and commitment are $3 per
  $1,000 of the mortgage amount. The HUD-inspection fee may not exceed $5
  per $1,000 of the mortgage amount.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The maximum mortgage term is 40 years, or not in excess of three-fourths of the
  remaining economic life, whichever is less.
Reports:
  HUD must approve mortgagor changes during the period of mortgage insurance.
   Defaults in meeting the mortgage terms must be reported. All mortgagors are
  required to submit an annual financial statement to HUD. All approved
  mortgagees at any time upon request by HUD must furnish copies of their latest
  financial statements.
Audits:
  The Department of Housing and Urban Development reserves the right to audit
  the accounts of either the mortgagee or mortgagor to determine their compliance
  and conformance with HUD regulations and standards.
Records:
  Mortgagees are required to service and maintain records in accordance with
  acceptable mortgage practices of prudent lending institutions and HUD
  regulations.
Account Identification:
  86-4077-0-3-371.
Obligations:
  (Mortgages insured) Reported under program 14.133.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  The maximum amount of the loan may not exceed 90 percent of the estimated
  replacement cost for For Section 221(d)(4). The maximum loan amount for
  Section 221(d)(3) is 100 percent of the estimated replacement cost.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In Fiscal Year 2007, the Department did not insure any mortgages under this
  section. No activity under this section is expected in Fiscal Year 2008.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  24 CFR 221.565; HUD Handbook 4560.3, Mortgage Insurance for Single Room
  Occupancy (SRO) Projects available on www.hudclips.org.
Regional or Local Office:
  Persons are encouraged to communicate with the nearest local HUD Multifamily
  Hub and Program Center listed in
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/mfh/mfbroch/hubs_pcs.cfm or the nearestHUD
  Office listed in the Catalog Address Appendix IV.
Headquarters Office:
  Office of Multifamily Development, Department of Housing and Urban
  Development, 451 7th Street, S.W., Washington, DC 20410. Telephone: (202)
  708-1142.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/hsgmulti.cfm.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  14.134, Mortgage Insurance_Rental Housing; 14.135, Mortgage
  Insurance_Rental and Cooperative Housing for Moderate Income Families and
  Elderly, Market Interest Rate; 14.155, Mortgage Insurance for the Purchase or
