  Refinancing of Existing Multifamily Housing Projects.                             
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  Not applicable.                                                                   
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                   
  Not applicable.                                                                   
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
14.188 HOUSING FINANCE AGENCIES (HFA) RISK

                                                                                    
SHARING                                                                             
   (542(c) Risk Sharing Program)                                                    
                                                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     
  HOUSING, DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT                              
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                      
  Housing and Community Development Act of 1992, Section 542(c), Public Law         
  102-550, 12 U.S.C. 1707. HUD's fiscal year 2001 Appropriations Bill amended       
  Section 235 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 to extend        
  the 542 Risk Sharing Program to a permanent multifamily mortgage insurance        
  program.                                                                          
OBJECTIVES:                                                                         
  Under Section 542(c), HUD provides credit enhancement for mortgages for           
  multifamily housing projects whose loans are underwritten, processed, serviced,   
  and disposed of by Housing Finance Agencies (HFA). HUD and the Housing            
  Finance Agencies share in the risk of the mortgage. The program was originally    
  designed as a pilot program to assess the feasibility of risk-sharing partnerships
  between HUD and qualified State and local HFAs in providing affordable            
  housing for the Nation. The Section 542(c)program is now permanent                
  multifamily insurance program.                                                    
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                
  Guaranteed/Insured Loans.                                                         
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                          
  Participating qualified State and local Housing Finance Agencies (HFAs) may       
  underwrite, originate, service, and dispose of properties financed under Section  
  542(c). Program provides full HUD mortgage insurance to enhance HFA bonds         
  to investment grade. HFA reimburses HUD in the event of a claim pursuant to       
  terms of Risk Sharing Agreement. HFAs may elect to share risk with HUD from       
  10 to 90 percent of the loss. The program provides new independent insurance      
  authority not under the National Housing Act.                                     
Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  Eligible mortgagors, who include investors, builders, developers, public entities,
  and private nonprofit corporations or associations, may apply to a qualified      
  HFA. To be eligible for HUD's approval, the HFA must: (1) carry the               
  designation of "top tier" or its equivalent as evaluated by Standard and Poors or 
  another nationally recognized rating agency; (2) receive an overall rating of "A" 
  for the HFA for its general obligation bonds from a nationally recognized rating  
  agency; or (3) otherwise demonstrate its capacity as a sound, well-managed        
  agency that is experienced in financing multifamily housing.                      
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                            
  Individuals, families, and property owners may be eligible for affordable         
                                                                                    
  housing.

                                                                                    
Credentials/Documentation:

                                                                                    
  Documentation regarding the characteristics of the property and the

  qualifications of the mortgagor are submitted with the application to a qualified

  HFA. Proof of nonprofit status is required of nonprofit organizations. Projects   
  must qualify as affordable housing as defined by Section 42(g) of the Internal    
  Revenue Code of 1986.

Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  To obtain mortgage insurance an applicant should consult the HFA as the single

  point of contact for more information on the process. The sponsor will have a     
  preapplication meeting with the HFA. This program is excluded for coverage        
  under E.O. 12372.                                                                 
                                                                                    
Application Procedure:

  An applicant submits a formal application directly to a HUD-approved HFA.         
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  The HFAs are vested with the maximum amount of processing responsibilities        
  and decision-making to approve or reject individual projects. However, HUD        
  retains authority for environmental review. The HUD-approved HFA is               
  responsible for making the award once the project qualifies for mortgage          
  insurance.                                                                        
Deadlines:                                                                          
  Deadlines are established on a case-by-case basis by HFAs, and are mutually       
  agreed to at the pre-commitment conference.                                       
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  Processing time depends upon the degree of preparation by the sponsor.            
Appeals:                                                                            
  If an application for mortgage insurance is refused, HFA will state the reasons   
  for the refusal. If reapplication is desired, the applicant may modify the        
  application and reapply.                                                          
Renewals:                                                                           
  HUD will provide mortgage insurance on multifamily housing projects whose         


                                                                               11-08
  loans were underwritten, processed, serviced, and disposed of by HFAs.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Not applicable.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Not applicable.
Reports:
  Any change of the mortgagor during the period of mortgage insurance must be
  approved by the HFA. Defaults in meeting the mortgage terms must be reported.
  All mortgagors are required to submit an annual financial statement to the HFA.
Audits:
  The Department of Housing and Urban Development reserves the right to audit
  the accounts of the HFA and the mortgagor in order to determine their
  compliance and conformance with HUD regulations and standards.
Records:
  HFAs are required to service and maintain records in accordance with
  acceptable mortgage practices of prudent lending institutions and the
  implementing regulations. HFAs must also monitor construction/inspection
  process.
Account Identification:
  86-4077-0-3-371.
Obligations:
  (loans insured) FY 07 $93,880,377; FY 08 est $90,000,000; and FY 09 est
  $120,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  In FY 2007, loan sizes ranged from $475,000 to $10,400,000, with an average of
  $4.8 million. Project sizes ranged from 34 to 216 units with an average of 91
  units.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In Fiscal Year 2007 HUD insured mortgages for 36 projects with 3,277 units
  totaling $173.3 million. It is estimated that a larger number of projects will be
  insured in Fiscal Year 2008.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  The regulatory authority for this program is regulation 24 CFR Part 266. HUD
  Handbook 4590.1, Housing Finance Agency Risk-Sharing Pilot Program, is
  located on www.hudclips.org.
Regional or Local Office:
  Persons are encouraged to communicate with the nearest local HUD Multifamily
  Hubs and Program Centers listed at
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/mfh/mfbroch/hubs_pcs.cfm or the nearest HUD
  Field Office listed in the Appendix IV of the Catalog.
Headquarters Office:
  Office of Multifamily Development, Department of Housing and Urban
  Development, 451 7th Street, S.W., Washington, DC 20410-8000. Telephone:
  (202) 708-1142. Use the same number for FTS.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/mfh/progdesc/progdesc.cfm.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  14.189, Qualified Participating Entities (QPE) Risk Sharing.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
14.189 QUALIFIED PARTICIPATING ENTITIES (QPE)
RISK SHARING
   (542(b) Risk Sharing Program)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  HOUSING, DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORIZATION:
  Housing and Community Development Act of 1992, Section 542(b), Public Law
  102-550, 12 U.S.C. 1701; Public Law 106-377. HUD's fiscal year 2001
  Appropriations Bill amended Section 235 of the Housing and Community
  Development Act of 1992 to extend the 542 Risk Sharing Program to a
  permanent multifamily insurance program.
OBJECTIVES:
  Under this program HUD provides reinsurance on multifamily housing projects
  whose loans are originated, underwritten, serviced, and disposed of by qualified
  participating entities (QPEs) and/or its approved lenders. The program
  encourages the development and preservation of affordable housing. The
  Section 542(b) program was originally designed as a pilot to test innovative
  mortgage insurance and reinsurance products to provide affordable multifamily
  housing through a partnership between HUD and QPEs, including Government
  Sponsored Enterprises, financial institutions, and the Federal Housing Finance
  Board.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Guaranteed/Insured Loans.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  QPEs and/or its approved lenders may originate and underwrite affordable
                                                                                 319
