  housing loans. HUD's mortgage credit enhancements are used to support the           
  underwriting and production strengths of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, and other         
  qualified Federal, State, and local public financial and housing institutions. In

  the event of a default, the QPE will pay all costs associated with loan disposition 
  and will seek reimbursement from HUD. In most cases, the HUD risk share will

  be 50 percent. The program provides a new insurance authority independent of        
  the National Housing Act.                                                           
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Eligible mortgagors include investors, builders, developers, public entities, and   
  private nonprofit corporations or associations may apply to a qualified QPE         
  and/or its lender.                                                                  
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Individuals, families, and property owners may be eligible for affordable           
  housing.                                                                            
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Documentation regarding the characteristics of the property and the                 
  qualifications of the mortgagor are submitted to the QPE and/or its lender.         
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  An applicant should consult the QPE as the single point of contact for more         
  information on the process. The sponsor will have a preapplication meeting with     
  the QPE. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                   
Application Procedure:                                                                
  An applicant submits a formal application directly to the QPE.                      
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  QPEs are vested with the maximum amount of processing responsibilities and          
  decision-making to approve or reject individual projects.                           
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Deadlines are established on a case-by-case basis by the QPE.                       
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Within 15 days of HUD's receipt of a complete and acceptable Risk Sharing           
  Request, HUD will execute the Addendum to Risk Sharing Agreement which              
  signifies that HUD has undertaken a Risk Sharing Obligation for a specific          
  mortgage loan.                                                                      
Appeals:                                                                              
  If a Risk Sharing Request is refused, HUD will state the reasons for the refusal.   
Renewals:                                                                             
  HUD will provide reinsurance on multifamily housing projects whose loans are        
  originated, underwritten, serviced, and disposed of by QPEs.                        
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Not applicable.

                                                                                      
Reports:

                                                                                      
  QPEs must submit a semi-annual report listing (1) the original mortgage amount

                                                                                      
  and outstanding unpaid principal balance for each reinsured loan, and (2) the

                                                                                      
  status of the reinsured loan.

                                                                                      
Audits:

                                                                                      
  The Department of Housing and Urban Development reserves the right to audit

                                                                                      
  the Mortgage Loans which HUD has reinsured.

                                                                                      
Records:

  QPEs are required to service and maintain records in accordance with acceptable     
  mortgage practices of prudent lending institutions.                                 
                                                                                      
Account Identification:

  86-4077-0-3-371.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Insured Loans) FY 07 $12,424,100; FY 08 est $11,250,000; and FY 09 est             
  $15,000,000.                                                                        
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  Loan sizes range from $1,300,000 to $5,600,000 with an average of $3.4              
  million. Project sizes range from 48 to 160 units with an average of 108 units.     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  In Fiscal Year 2007, HUD insured mortgages for 13 projects with 1,415 units,        
  totaling $44.3 million units. It is estimated that the Department will insure the   
  same number of mortgages in Fiscal Year 2008.                                       
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  The Section 542(b) program was implemented without regulations.                     
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Persons are encouraged to communicate with the nearest local HUD Multifamily        
  Hub or Program Center listed at                                                     
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/mfh/mfbroch/hubs_pcs.cfm or the nearest HUD          
  Field Office listed in the Catalog Address Appendix IV.                             
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Office of Multifamily Development, Department of Housing and Urban                  
  Development, 451 7th Street, S.W., Washington, DC 20410. Telephone: (202)           
  708-1142. Use the same number for FTS.                                              
                                                                                      
Web Site Address:

                                                                                      
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/hsgmulti.cfm.

                                                                                      
RELATED PROGRAMS:

                                                                                      
  14.188, Housing Finance Agencies (HFA) Risk Sharing.

                                                                                      
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

  Not applicable.                                                                     


320                                                                             11-08

CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
14.191 MULTIFAMILY HOUSING SERVICE
COORDINATORS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF HOUSING, DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN
  DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORIZATION:
  National Affordable Housing Act, Section 808, Public Law 101-625, as
  amended; Housing and Community Development Act of 1992, 42 U.S.C. 13632,
  Public Law 104-104, as amended; American Homeownership and Economic
  Opportunity Act of 2000, Section 851, Public Law 106-569, approved December
  27, 2000.
OBJECTIVES:
  To link elderly, especially frail and disabled, or disabled non-elderly assisted
  housing and neighborhood residents to supportive service in the general
  community; to prevent premature and unnecessary institutionalization; and, to
  assess individual service needs, determine eligibility for public services and
  make resource allocation decisions which enable residents to stay in the
  community longer.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The service coordinator is a social service staff person hired by the development
  owner/management company to arrange a broad spectrum of services for
  residents which include, but are not limited to, the following: the provision of
  formal case management (i.e., the evaluation of health, psychological or social
  needs); educate residents and development management staff on issues related to
  aging-in-place and service coordination; monitor the provision of services, and
  act as an advocate for the resident in dealing with community service providers.
  The service coordinator may not serve as the recreational or activities director
  for a development; provide supportive services directly, or assist with other
  administrative work associated with the development's operation during the time
  paid for by grant funds.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible applicants are owners of Section 8 developments with project-based
  subsidy (including Rural Housing Service Section 515/8 developments); Section
  202 developments as defined under 24 CFR Sections 277 and 885, and
  221(d)(3) below-market interest rate and 236 developments which are insured or
  assisted (funded under Sections 24 CFR 221 Subpart C, 236, 277, 880, 881,
  883, 885 and 886). To be eligible, developments must also be current in
  mortgage payments. Service coordinators for Congregate Housing Service
  Programs (CHSP), Section 202 developments with a Project Rental Assistance
  Contract (PRAC), and Section 811 developments are not eligible for funding.
  Owners of Section 202 PRAC developments may request an increase in their
  PRAC to hire a Service Coordinator by following procedures in the Office of
  Housing's Management Agent Handbook 4381.5, Revision-2, Change-2,
  Chapter 8.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Eligible beneficiaries are residents of eligible housing or community residents
  who live in the vicinity of such housing. Service Coordination may be provided
  to elderly or disabled families. In particular, priority is given to residents who
  are frail (unable to perform at least three activities of daily living (ADLs)) or "at
  risk" elderly persons who are unable to perform 1- 2 ADLs, or non-elderly
  disabled or temporarily disabled residents. At least twenty-five percent of the
  residents of a development must be frail, at risk, or non-elderly people with
  disabilities for that development to be eligible for funding.
Credentials/Documentation:
  As required in the annual Notice of Funding Availablity (NOFA) published in
  the Federal Register.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None required. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applications must be submitted in accordance with the requirements in the
  NOFA published in the Federal Register.
Award Procedure:
  As described in the NOFA. All eligible applications will be selected through a
  national lottery.
Deadlines:
  Deadlines are specified in the NOFA.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  As specified in the NOFA.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  At the end of the grant period, subject to the availability of appropriations,
  continued need, and compliance with grant requirements.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
