OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  The purpose of the Good Neighbor Next Door Sales Program is to improve the         
  quality of life in distressed urban communities. This is to be accomplished by     
  encouraging law enforcement officers, teachers, and firefighters/emergency         
  medical technicians, and pre-Kindergarten Teachers whose daily responsibilities    
  and duties represent a nexus to the needsof the community, to purchase and live    
  in homes in these communities.                                                     
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Sale, Exchange, or Donation of Property and Goods.                                 
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Participants must be employed full-time as a law enforcement officer, pre-K        
  through grade 12 teacher, firefighter or emergency medical technician and agree    
  to live in the property purchased for thirty six months from the date of           
  occupancy following purchase of the home. Violation of the occupancy rule is       
  under penalty of repayment of a prorata share of the discount of fifty percent of  
  the list price. Properties offered through the program are single unit residences  
  located in HUD-designated revitalization areas. The availability of properties is  
  limited. Purchasers must provide financing for the purchases by their own          
  means and are responsible for their portion of closing costs and broker fees.      
  Teachers and Firefighters/EMTs are restricted to purchase homes located in an      
  area served by their employer.                                                     
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Eligible law enforcement officer must be (a) Employed full-time by a law           
  enforcement agency of the federal government, a state, a unit of general local     
  government, or an Indian tribal government ; and (b) In carrying out such full-    
  time employment, you are sworn to uphold, and make arrests for violations of,      
  Federal, state, county, or municipal law. A firefighter/EMT must be full-time as   
  a firefighter or emergency medical technician by a fire department or emergency    
  medical services responder unit of the federal government, a state, unit of        
  general local government, or an Indian tribal government serving the area where    
  the home is located. A teacher for the purposes of the GNND Sales Program if       
  the person is: (a) Employed as a full-time teacher by a state-accredited public    
  school or private school that provides direct services to students in grades pre-  
  kindergarten through 12; and (b) The public or private school where the person     
  is employed as a teacher serves students from the area where the home is located   
  in the normal course of business.                                                  
                                                                                     
Beneficiary Eligibility:

  Law enforcement officers, firefighters, and EMTs purchasing a HUD-owned            
                                                                                     
  home in a designated revitalization area for use as their sole residence.

                                                                                     
Credentials/Documentation:

                                                                                     
  Sales contract (HUD 9548); employer certification; second mortgage and note.

Preapplication Coordination:

  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372,                     
  Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs (or consultation with State and

                                                                                     
  local governments regarding program design).                                       
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Interested persons apply by submitting an offer to purchase a property listed

                                                                                     
  through HUD's property disposition program. Properties for sale are listed on      
  the Internet at sites accessible to the general public. Offers are submitted       
  electronically. The offer amount submitted must be the list price.                 
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  A winning offer is selected randomly each week. The selected offeror is offered

                                                                                     
  the property at a 50 percent discount off the list price, subject to the purchaser

                                                                                     
  fully complying with the 36 month occupancy requirement and other program

                                                                                     
  rules. The selected offeror is provided with a document package. The offeror

                                                                                     
  accepts by signing and returning the sales documents. The selected offeror

                                                                                     
  receives title to the home at a sales closing. The selected offeror arranges for

                                                                                     
  financing of the purchase price.

                                                                                     
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Properties eligible for this program are offered exclusively to law enforcement

                                                                                     
  officer, firefighters, pre-K through 12 teachers and emergency medical

                                                                                     
  technicians for five days beginning with the first listing of the property.

                                                                                     
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

                                                                                     
  Varies.

                                                                                     
Appeals:

                                                                                     
  None.

                                                                                     
Renewals:

  Not applicable.                                                                    
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  The assistance is in the form of a 50 percent reduction in the list price of the   
  home selected for purchase. The discount is provided in the form of a self-        
  amortizing note/mortgage reducted each month of occupancy over 36 months.          
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  The assistance is provided in exchange for the buyer's commitment to occupy        
  the homes as a personal residence for thirty six months. Each month of             
  occupancy results in the forgiveness of one thirty sixth of the discount value.    
  Early vacation of the premises requires repayment of a pro rata amount of the      
  discount.                                                                          
Reports:                                                                             
  The officer, pre-K through 12 teacher, firefighter or EMT purchasing the home      




                                                                                11-08
  must submit an annual certification for each of 12-month period that he or she
  resides in the home.
Audits:
  None.
Records:
  Not applicable.
Account Identification:
  86-4587-0-3-371; 86-4070-0-3-371; 86-4077-0-3-371; 86-4072-0-3-371; 86-
  4242-0-3-371; 86-4105-0-3-371.
Obligations:
  (Sales) Reported under program 14.311.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Fifty percent discount off list price of home. List prices vary widely.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Over 13,000 properties have been sold through the life of the program as of the
  end of FY 2006.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  HUD Regulations at 24 CFR Part 291. Fed. Register, October 31, 2006,
  Volume, Number, Page. Program information is available on HUD's website at
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/sfh/reo/goodn/gnndabot.cfm.
Regional or Local Office:
  Contact HUD's Homeownership Center (HOC)serving your state. Each
  Homeownership Center has Good Neighbor Next Door Coordinators. HOCs and
  their service areas may be found on the web at
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/sfh/hoc/hsghocs.cfm. Management and
  Marketing (M&M) contractors provide listings of properties available for
  purchase through the Good Neighbor Next Door program on the web and are a
  source of information. Go to http://www.hud.gov/homes/index.cfm and click on
  the state of your choice.
Headquarters Office:
  For policy questions not covered on the website, contact the Asset Management
  and Disposition Division by mail to 451 7th Street SW, Washington, DC 20410;
  or by phone to (202) 708-1672 (this is not a toll free number).
Web Site Address:
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/sfh/reo/goodn/gnndabot.cfm
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
14.199 MULTIFAMILY PROPERTY DISPOSITION
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF HOUSING, OFFICE OF MULTIFAMILY HOUSING,
  DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORIZATION:
  National Housing Act, Section 207(k) and (l); Housing and Community
  Development Amendments of 1978, Section 203; Departments of Veterans
  Affairs, Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies
  Appropriations Act of 1997, Public Law 104-204; Departments of Veterans
  Affairs, Housing and Urban Development, Section 213, and Independent
  Agencies Appropriations Act of 1998, Public Law 105-65; Departments of
  Veterans Affairs, Housing and Urban Development, Section 206, and
  Independent Agencies Appropriations Act of 1999, Public Law 105-276;
  Departments of Veterans Affairs, Housing and Urban Development, and
  Independent Agencies Appropriations Act of 2000, Public Law 106-74.
OBJECTIVES:
  To manage and dispose of multifamily housing projects that are owned by the
  Secretary or that are subject to a mortgage held by the Secretary in a manner that
  is consistent with the National Housing Act; protect the financial interests of the
  Federal government, and will, in the least costly fashion among reasonable
  available alternatives: preserve certain housing so that it can remain available to
  and affordable by low-income persons; preserve and revitalize residential
  neighborhoods; maintain the existing housing stock in a decent, safe and
  sanitary condition; minimize the involuntary displacement of tenants; maintain
  housing for the purpose of providing rental housing, cooperative housing, and
  home ownership opportunities for low-income persons; supporting fair housing
  strategies; and dispose of such projects in a manner consistent with local
  housing market conditions.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Sale, Exchange, or Donation of Property and Goods.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  This section only applies to multifamily housing projects owned by the Secretary
  or that are subject to a mortgage held by the Secretary for which a foreclosure
  sale is to be held. A property can be sold with its current project-based Section
  8 contract assigned to the new owner so that contract and its requirements stay
  in place. A property can be sold with tenant-based Housing Choice Vouchers
  (14.871) being provided to eligible tenants, which give the tenants the ability to
                                                                                   323
