  stay on-site in units that meet HUD standards, or move to another location. In      
  both cases, the residents must meet the eligibility requirements of those           
  programs, which are defined elsewhere. A HUD-owned property may be sold             
  with an up-front grant to assist in paying for rehabilitation or rebuilding         
  provided funds have been appropriated by Congress. To be eligible, in addition      
  to the property being HUD-owned, it must have more than 50 percent of the           
  units in the project occupied by very low- income residents at the time a           
  disposition plan is approved by HUD, or HUD must determine it is essential, as      
  affordable housing, to the revitalization of its community; it must be located in a 
  housing market or submarket in which there is not sufficient habitable,             
  affordable, rental housing, as defined in 24 CFR 290.3; it will generate, after     
  rehabilitation or rebuilding, sufficient rental income in a competitive market to   
  cover all operating expenses, meet after sale debt service requirements, fund       
  required reserves and throw off positive cash flow; will provide affordable         
  housing for at least 20 years, after the rehabilitation and/or rebuilding is        
  completed; meets such other requirements, including deed restrictions, loan         
  provisions, and monetary penalties for non-performance, as HUD may determine        
  are appropriate on a case-by-case basis. The maximum that HUD will fund per         
                                                                                      
  project in an up-front grant or loan is 50 percent of total development cost

                                                                                      
  (TDC), or $40,000 per affordable, finished unit, whichever amount is less (not to

                                                                                      
  exceed the current number of residential units in the project).

                                                                                      
Applicant Eligibility:

                                                                                      
  These properties can be purchased by governmental entities, private individuals,

                                                                                      
  corporations, or nonprofit organizations who have the requisite qualifications

  and agree to abide by the conditions set by HUD for the particular property sale.

Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  The ultimate beneficiary of those properties sold for continued use as affordable   
  housing are low-income individuals and families.

Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Interested parties must file HUD form 2530, "Previous Participation Clearance       
  Application," and certify to HUD that any properties owned by the purchaser in      
  the same geographical area of the property being purchased meet all applicable      
  standards and housing codes.                                                        
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                      
Application Procedure:                                                                
  There is no application process. Foreclosure sales are conducted on an open, oral   
  bid process, with sealed bids also being permitted. HUD-owned properties may        
  be purchased without competition by governmental entities. HUD can sell some        
  properties non-competitively to nonprofits. All other HUD-owned properties are      
  sold through a full and open competition, usually sealed bids, auctions, or a       
  Request for Proposals. HUD maintains a mailing list of individuals and firms        
  interested in buying these projects, and maintains a website which lists all        
  properties currently available for sale.                                            
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Properties sold at foreclosure are sold to the highest responsive and responsible   
  bidder. HUD-owned projects may be sold to governmental entities who agree to        
  meet HUD's requirements. Certain HUD-owned projects can be sold to                  
  nonprofits who agree to meet HUD's requirements. HUD-owned properties can           
  be sold to the highest responsive and responsible bidder, and some are sold to      
  the proposer with the best experience and plan for the future operation of the      
  property.                                                                           
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Deadlines are established on a property-by-property basis.                          
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Contingent upon complexity of case.                                                 
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  Renewals of the Section 8 are subject to the rules of the particular program.       
  There are no renewals of Up-Front Grants.                                           
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  None.                                                                               
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  None.                                                                               
Reports:                                                                              
  Purchaser must file, electronically, an annual financial statement to HUD           
  audited and prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting               
  Principals and Generally Accepted Auditing Standards. Other reporting               
  requirements established by Property Disposition Centers.                           
Audits:                                                                               
  None.                                                                               
Records:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Account Identification:                                                               
  86-4072-0-1-371; 86-4077-0-1-371.                                                   
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Sales) FY 07 est not available; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est             
  $450,000.                                                                           
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            


324                                                                             11-08

  Not applicable.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  HUD closes about 50-125 projects annually.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Reference material can be found at website
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/mfh/pd/multifam.cfm.
Regional or Local Office:
  Interested parties can contact the Multifamily Property Disposition Centers in
  the Atlanta and Fort Worth HUD Offices listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.
Headquarters Office:
  Director, Office of Multifamily Asset Management, Department of Housing and
  Urban Development, Washington, DC 20410. Telephone: (202) 708-3730.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/mfh/pd/multifam.cfm .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  14.871, Section 8 Housing Choice Vouchers.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  For the up-front grants, once HUD identifies an eligible project, the grant is
  made part of the sale and the project is only sold to a purchaser who has the
  demonstrated experience to rehabilitate/rebuild the project and maintain it as
  affordable housing for at least 20 years after the rehabilitation/rebuilding is
  completed.
14.218 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK
GRANTS/ENTITLEMENT GRANTS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  COMMUNITY PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT, DEPARTMENT OF
  HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORIZATION:
  Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, Title I, as amended, Public
  Law 93-383.
OBJECTIVES:
  To develop viable urban communities, by providing decent housing and a
  suitable living environment, and by expanding economic opportunities,
  principally for persons of low and moderate income.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Recipients may undertake a wide range of activities directed toward
  neighborhood revitalization, economic development, and provision of improved
  community facilities and services. Entitlement communities develop their own
  programs and funding priorities as long as programs/activities conform to the
  statutory standards and program regulations. Some of the specific activities that
  can be carried out with Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) funds
  include acquisition of real property; relocation; clearance and demolition;
  rehabilitation of residential and nonresidential structures; provision of public
  facilities and improvements, such as water and sewer facilities (which require
  reviews by the State single point of contact or a Regional Planning Agency in
  accordance with Executive Order 12372), streets, and neighborhood centers. In
  addition, CDBG funds may be used to pay for public services within certain
  limits. Recipients may contract with other local agencies or nonprofit
  organizations to carry out part or all of their programs. Community-based
  development organizations may carry out neighborhood revitalization,
  community economic development or energy conservation projects to further
  achieve the national objectives of the CDBG program. Recipients may provide
  assistance to microenterprises or other for-profit entities when the recipient
  determines that the provision of such assistance is appropriate to carry out an
  economic development project. All eligible activities must either benefit low-
  and moderate-income persons, aid in the prevention or elimination of slums or
  blight, or meet other community development needs having a particular urgency
  that the grantee is unable to finance on its own.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Cities in Metropolitan Areas designated by OMB as a central city of the
  Metropolitan Area; other cities over 50,000 in Metropolitan Areas; and qualified
  urban counties of at least 200,000 (excluding the population in entitlement cities
  located within the boundaries of such counties) are eligible to receive CDBG
  entitlement grants determined by a statutory formula.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  The principal beneficiaries of CDBG funds are low- and moderate-income
  persons (generally defined as a member of a family having an income equal to or
  less than the Section 8 low income limit established by HUD). The grantee must
  certify that at least 70 percent of the grant funds received during a 1, 2, or 3-year
  period, that it designates, are expended for activities that will principally benefit
  low- and moderate-income persons.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State
  and local governments.
