Preapplication Coordination:                                                            
  A grantee is required to prepare a consolidated plan in accordance with the           
  requirements of Part 91; have and follow a detailed citizen participation plan;       
  provide information to citizens on the amount of CDBG funds available and the         
  range of community development and housing activities that may be undertaken;         
  hold public hearings; publish a proposed action plan which includes a                 
  description of activities in sufficient detail, including location, to afford affected
  citizens an opportunity to submit views and comments prior to the preparation of      
  a final action plan; prepare and submit a final action plan to HUD. This              
  program is covered under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal             
  Programs." Recipients should consult the office or the official designated as the     
  single point of contact in its respective State for more information on the process   
  the State requires to be followed when funds are used for the planning or the         
  construction (reconstruction or rehabilitation) of water or sewer facilities.         
Application Procedure:                                                                  
  Submit a Consolidated Plan, an annual action plan, SF Form 424, and                   
  certifications to HUD. The Consolidated Plan and annual action plan cover four        
  major formula-distribution HUD Community development programs, including              
  CDBG. The annual action plan must include the local community development             
  objectives and show the proposed use of the funds. If the grantee makes a             
  complete submission within the established deadlines, the Department will make        
  a grant award unless a determination is made by HUD that the grantee's                
  performance is unsatisfactory. HUD will approve the submission generally              
  within 45 days of receipt of the annual action plan and required certifications       
  unless a determination has been made that the grantee has failed to carry out its     
  CDBG program in a timely manner or has failed to conform to the requirements          
  of the statute or other applicable laws. Under such circumstances, HUD may            
  take appropriate actions, including reductions in the amount of the final grant.      
Award Procedure:                                                                        
  None.                                                                                 
Deadlines:                                                                              
  For formula grants, action plans associated with the Consolidated Plan must be        
  submitted based on the grantee's program year, but no earlier than November 15        
  or no later than August 16 of the fiscal year for which the funds are allocated.      
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                     
  Generally within 45 days.                                                             
Appeals:                                                                                
  Administrative appeals process followed if entitlement grant funds are withheld

  or reduced, or repayment proposed for non- compliance or non-performance.             
Renewals:                                                                               
  Every 3 to 5 years, localities submit a Consolidated Plan. Each year localities

  submit an annual action plan and certifications.                                      
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                      
  Entitlements are based on a dual formula under Section 106 of the Act using           
  statistical factors. Each metropolitan city and urban county is entitled to receive   
  an amount equaling the greater of the amounts calculated under two formulas.          
  The factors involved in the first formula are population, extent of poverty and       
  extent of overcrowded housing, weighted 0.25, 0.50, and 0.25, respectively. The       
  factors involved in the second formula are population growth lag, poverty, and        
  age of housing, weighted 0.20, 0.30, and 0.50, respectively. The statistical          
  factors used for fund allocation are (1) most current population estimates from       
  the Bureau of Census 90 days before the end of the fiscal year; (2) number of         
  persons with incomes below the poverty level from the source 2000 Census; (3)         
  number of housing units with 1.01 or more persons per room from the source            
  2000 Census; (4) age of housing; number of year-round housing units built in          
  1939 or earlier from the source 2000 Census; (5) growth lag; the lag in               
                                                                                        
  population growth as computed from population in 1960 to current population

                                                                                        
  from the source 1960 Census and P25, Census Report. Statistical factors used

                                                                                        
  for eligibility are (1) metropolitan city: principal city of a Metropolitan Area

                                                                                        
  (MA) or city within MA with 50,000 population from the source Census and

                                                                                        
  OMB; (2) urban county: generally, counties in MA having a net population of

                                                                                        
  200,000 or more, excluding entitlement cities located therein, from the source

                                                                                        
  Census and OMB. Questions concerning the formula should be addressed to the

                                                                                        
  Systems Development and Evaluation Division, Community Planning and

                                                                                        
  Development, 451 7th Street S.W., Washington, DC 20410. Telephone: (202)

                                                                                        
  708-0790.

                                                                                        
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                  
  Assistance is for an annual program of activities, but activities generally may be    
  continued beyond one year until completed.                                            
Reports:                                                                                
  An annual performance report is required on the use of funds to meet program

                                                                                        
  requirements including the grantee's objectives and the national objectives of the    
  program.                                                                              
Audits:                                                                                 
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June

                                                                                        
  27, 2003), "Audits of State and Local Governments and Nonprofit

                                                                                        
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend $500,000 or more in Federal           
  awards in a year shall generally have a single audit conducted for that year. (The    
  auditee may elect to have a program-specific audit conducted under certain            
  limited circumstances.)                                                               
                                                                                   11-08
Records:
  The applicant must maintain records with regard to eligibility, national
  objectives, financial management, citizen participation, relocation, other
  resources, acquisition, housing assistance to units and households, equal
  opportunity, environmental impact, labor standards and other requirements set
  forth in regulations. Records shall be retained for four years after submission of
  the report in which the activity is reported as completed, except as otherwise
  prescribed in the published regulations.
Account Identification:
  86-0162-0-1-451.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $2,592,790,000; FY 08 est $2,510,501,000; FY 09 est $1,909,184,000.
  (NOTE: Amounts reported reflect allocation of new budget authority rather than
  obligation amounts.)
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Determined by formula.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  There are approximately 1,150 units of local government eligible to receive
  entitlement grants during fiscal year 2008.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Administrative Regulations for Community Development Block Grants, 24 CFR
  570.
Regional or Local Office:
  Contact appropriate HUD Field Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.
Headquarters Office:
  Entitlement Communities Division, Office of Block Grant Assistance,
  Community Planning and Development, 451 7th Street, S.W., Washington, DC
  20410. Telephone: (202) 708-1577. Use the same number for FTS.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/cpd/index.cfm.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  14.228 - Community Development Block Grants/State's program and Non-
  Entitlement Grants in Hawaii.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  None.
14.225 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK
GRANTS/SPECIAL PURPOSE GRANTS/INSULAR AREAS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  COMMUNITY PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT, DEPARTMENT OF
  HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORIZATION:
  Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, Title I, Public
  Law 93-383, 42 U.S.C. 5306(a)(2).
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide community development assistance to the Pacific Islands of
  American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Virgin Islands
  in the Caribbean.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Activities must be eligible under 24 CFR 570 Subpart C.
Applicant Eligibility:
  The Island Governments of American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana
  Islands, and the Virgin Islands.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  The principal beneficiaries of CDBG funds are low and moderate income
  persons. Low and moderate income is generally defined as 80 percent of the
  median income for the territory, as adjusted by family size.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State
  and local governments.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Each Insular Area shall submit a consolidated plan or an abbreviated
  consolidated plan to HUD no later than 45 days before the start of its program
  year.
Award Procedure:
  The Honolulu Field Office and the HUD San Juan Field Office are responsible
  for reviewing each consolidated plan or abbreviated consolidated plan and
  approving them if the submissions are in accordance with 24 CFR 91 and the
  certifications are acceptable to HUD.
Deadlines:
  Applicants must submit final statements no later than 45 days before the start of
  its program year.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  45 days.
                                                                                      325
