CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Applications are reviewed according to criteria set forth in solicitation          
  documents.                                                                         
                                                                                     
14.228 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK                                                   
                                                                                     
GRANTS/STATE'S PROGRAM AND NON-ENTITLEMENT                                           
GRANTS IN HAWAII                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  COMMUNITY PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT, DEPARTMENT OF                                  
  HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT                                                      
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Housing and Community Development Act of 1974,Title I, as amended; Public          
  Law 93-383; 88 Stat. 633; 42 U.S.C. 5301-5321.                                     
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  The primary objective of this program is the development of viable urban           
  communities by providing decent housing, a suitable living environment, and        
  expanding economic opportunities, principally for persons of low and moderate      
  income. Each activity funded must meet one of the program's National               
  Objectives by: Benefiting low and moderate income families; aiding in the          
  prevention or elimination of slums or blight; or meeting other community           
  development needs having a particular urgency because existing conditions pose     
  a serious and immediate threat to the health or welfare of the community where     
  other financial resources are not available.                                       
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Formula Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Thirty percent of funds available for distribution under each annual               
  appropriation for the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program is          
  allocated among the States and Puerto Rico (which is considered to be a state for  
  the State CDBG program) for use in areas which are not a metropolitan city or      
  part of an urban county (nonentitlement areas). All States except Hawaii have      
  elected to administer these CDBG funds for areas that do not receive CDBG          
  entitlement grants (14.218). HUD awards the formula grants to these States         
                                                                                     
  under the CDBG/State Program. In Hawaii, HUD awards the state's share of

                                                                                     
  these funds to three non-entitlement counties. States must distribute CDBG

                                                                                     
  funds to units of general local government (counties, towns, etc.) in

                                                                                     
  nonentitlement areas. States develop their own programs and funding priorities.    
  Units of general local government then carry out community development             
  activities funded by the State. Eligible activities are directed toward            
  neighborhood revitalization, economic development, or provision of improved        
  community facilities and services. Specific activities that can be carried out with
  block grant funds include: Acquisition, rehabilitation or construction of certain  
  public works facilities and improvements, such as streets, water and sewer         
  facilities, neighborhood centers, recreation facilities, and other public works;   
  demolition and clearance; rehabilitation of public and private buildings           
  including housing; code enforcement; relocation payments and assistance;           
  economic development; planning activities; certain public services with some       
  restrictions; and administrative expenses. The projected use of funds must be      
  developed to ensure that all activities will meet one of the three national        
  objectives described under "OBJECTIVES". Communities receiving CDBG                
  funds from a state may select subgrantees to carry out approved projects. Such     
  subgrantees may include: Neighborhood-based nonprofit organizations; local         
  development corporations; Small Business Investment Companies; or other            
  nonprofit organizations serving the development needs of nonentitlement areas.

                                                                                     
  Grant recipients may provide assistance to for-profit entities when the recipient  
  determines that the provision of such assistance is appropriate to carry out an    
  economic development project. Communities are restricted from constructing or      
  rehabilitating public facilities for the general conduct of government and from    
  making housing allowances or other income maintenance-type payments. Each          
  State may use a limited portion of its grant, subject to a matching requirement,   
  to administer the program. Each State may also use a limited portion of its grant, 
  with no matching requirement, to provide technical assistance to local             
  governments and nonprofit program recipients. At least seventy percent of the      
  funds received must benefit low and moderate income persons.                       
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Forty-nine State governments and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico receive           
  funds from HUD under this program. The state of Hawaii does not participate        
  and HUD allocates the state's share of funds to the three Hawaii non-entitled      
  counties. Funds are allocated to each state based on a statutory formula. States   
  must distribute the funds to units of general local government in nonentitlement   
  areas.                                                                             
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  The principal beneficiaries of CDBG funds are low and moderate income              
  persons. For non-metropolitan areas, low and moderate income is generally          
  defined as 80 percent of the median income for non-metropolitan areas of the       
  State or of the county, whichever is higher, adjusted for family size. For eligible
  localities in metropolitan areas, low- and moderate-income is generally defined    
  as 80 percent of the median income for the metropolitan area, adjusted for         


                                                                                11-08
  family size.
Credentials/Documentation:
  The State must certify that with respect to nonentitlement areas the State will:
  (1) engage in planning for community development activities; (2) provide
  technical assistance; (3) consult with local officials from nonentitlement areas in
  determining methods for distributing funds, and (4) each unit of general local
  government to receive funds must identify its housing and community
  development needs, the needs of low and moderate-income persons, and the
  activities to be undertaken to meet such needs. The State must submit a
  Consolidated Plan and annual action plan, which contains its method of
  distributing CDBG funds. The State must also certify that (1) it has met the
  statutory citizen participation requirements, (2) it will conduct its grant in
  conformance with the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Fair Housing Act, (3) all
  activities will meet one of the three national objectives described under
  "OBJECTIVES", and (4) it will comply with the other provisions of Title I and
  all applicable laws. This program is covered under OMB Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under 24 CFR Part 85 and E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Each state must submit a Consolidated Plan, an annual action plan and
  certifications to HUD. The Consolidated Plan and annual action plan cover four
  major formula-distribution HUD community development programs, including
  CDBG. The annual action plan must contain the method by which the State will
  distribute its CDBG funds.
Award Procedure:
  HUD will provide funds after the State submits its Consolidated Plan, annual
  action plan and Certifications.
Deadlines:
  Consolidated Plans may be submitted between November 15 and August 16 of
  each fiscal year in which the State will administer funds.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  HUD will review plan submissions for completeness and consistency with the
  purposes of the Act, within 45 days of receipt from a State.
Appeals:
  The procedure is described in regulations (24 CFR Part 570 Subpart I).
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Allocations to States are based on Census data using a dual formula prescribed
  under Section 106 of the Act. Allocations for each State are based on an amount
  equaling the greater of the amounts calculated under the two formulas. The
  factors involved in the first formula are population, extent of poverty and extent
  of overcrowding, weighted 0.25, 0.50, and 0.25, respectively. The factors
  involved in the second formula are population, poverty, and age of housing,
  weighted 0.20, 0.30, and 0.50, respectively. The statistical factors used for fund
  allocation are (1) total resident population for all places in the nation (2) number
  of persons with incomes below the poverty level; (3) number of housing units
  with 1.01 or more persons per room; and (4) age of housing (number of year-
  round housing units built in 1939 or earlier). The statistical factors for each State
  are adjusted to reflect only the non-entitled area; that is, the State area excluding
  metropolitan cities and urban counties. There is no matching requirement for the
  allocation of funds under the formula. Address questions concerning the formula
  to the Systems Development and Evaluation Division Rm. 7224, Community
  Planning and Development, 451 7th Street, S.W. Washington, DC 20410.
  Telephone: (202) 708-0790.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Assistance is provided to States on an annual basis. Individual States may
  impose time limitations on the implementation of grants to recipients.
Reports:
  Annual performance report covering all programs included in the Consolidated
  Plan as prescribed at 24 CFR 91.520; SF-272 Federal Cash Transactions Report.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of State
  and Local Governments and Non-Profit Organizations", nonfederal entities that
  expend $500,000 or more in a year shall have a single audit conducted for that
  year in accordance with the provisions of the circular.
Records:
  Records must demonstrate that the State has met the requirements of Title I of
  the Act.
Account Identification:
  86-0162-0-1-451.
Obligations:
  FY 07 est $1,111,196,000; FY 08 $1,075,929,000; and FY 09 $818,221,000.
  (NOTE: Amounts reported reflect allocation of new budget authority rather than
  obligation amounts.)
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  State grant amounts are determined by formula. Of the 50 state grants awarded
  under the State CDBG program in FY 2008, the average (mean) grant amount
  was $21,414,231. Grant amounts ranged from $1,982,003 to $71,779,088. The
  average grant amount in FY 2007 was $22,117,187. These totals do not include
                                                                                      327
