  Hawaii's allocations awarded to its 3 non-entitled counties. Hawaii's share of the     
   2008 allocation is $5,217,450.                                                        
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                 
  Accomplishments reported by states in fiscal year 2007 provided 17,492 housing         
  benefits for nonentitlement communities, and created or retained 27,487 jobs.          
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                 
  24 CFR Part 570, 24 CFR Part 91, 24 CFR Part 58.                                       
Regional or Local Office:                                                                
  Contact the appropriate HUD Field Office listed in Appendix IV of the print            
  edition of this Catalog. Or on the Internet, see:                                      
  http://www.hud.gov/local/index.cfm. Contact the Honolulu Field Office for the          
  non-entitled Hawaii counties.                                                          
Headquarters Office:                                                                     
  State and Small Cities Division, Office of Block Grant Assistance, Community           
  Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development,                 
  451 7th Street, SW., Washington, DC 20410. Telephone: (202) 708-1322; e-               
  mail: Diane.L.Lobasso@hud.gov.                                                         
Web Site Address:                                                                        
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/cpd/about/cpd_programs.cfm.                                 
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                        
  14.218, Community Development Block Grants/Entitlement Grants; 14.225                  
  Community Development Block Grants/Special Purpose Grants/Insular Areas.               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                             
  Projects are selected by States.                                                       
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                        
  All States are eligible if they meet the requirements outlined in                      
  Credentials/Documentation. States are responsible for determining the methods          
  of distribution of funds to their units of general local government in                 
  nonentitlement areas.                                                                  
                                                                                         
14.231 EMERGENCY SHELTER GRANTS PROGRAM                                                  
                                                                                         
      (ESG)                                                                              
                                                                                         
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                          
  COMMUNITY PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT, DEPARTMENT OF                                      
  HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT                                                          
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                           
  McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act of 1987, Title IV, as amended, 42               
  U.S.C. 11371-78.                                                                       
OBJECTIVES:                                                                              
  To help improve the quality of emergency shelters and transitional housing for         
  the homeless, to make available additional shelters, to meet the costs of              
  operating shelters, to provide essential social services to homeless individuals,      
  and to help prevent homelessness.                                                      
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                     
  Formula Grants.                                                                        
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                               
  Grantees may use the grant for one or more of the following activities relating to     
  emergency shelter and transitional housing for the homeless: (1) renovation,           
  major rehabilitation, or conversion of buildings for use as shelters for the           
  homeless; (2) provision of essential services to the homeless (not more than 30        
  percent of the grant, unless waived by HUD); (3) payment of operations (not            
  more than 10 percent of the grant for staff management costs), maintenance,            
  rent, repair, security, fuel, equipment, insurance, utilities, and furnishings; and    
  (4) homeless prevention activities (not more than 30 percent of the grant), and        
  (5) administrative costs not to exceed five percent of the ESG grant. In the case      
  of State grantees, the grant for administration must be shared with funded             
  recipients.                                                                            
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                   
  States, metropolitan cities, urban counties, and territories. Local governments        
  receiving formula allocations may distribute all or part of their grants to            
  nonprofit recipients to be used for ESG activities. State grantees must distribute     
  ESG funds to local governments, or directly to nonprofit organizations with the        
  approval of the local government. Only local governments and nonprofit                 
  organizations may apply for ESG funds directly from States. The territories            
  receive their allocations based on their population size.                              
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                 
  Homeless families and individuals, and low-income persons in immediate risk of         
  losing their housing due to eviction, foreclosure, or utility shutoffs.                
Credentials/Documentation:                                                               
  States, metropolitan cities, urban counties, and territories that elect to participate 
  in the program must submit (1) an approved Consolidated Plan; and (2)                  
  certifications that each grantee will (a) supplement the assistance provided under     
  the program with an equal amount of funds from other sources, except for State         
  grantees under the $100,000 exemption, (b) ensure that any building using ESG          
  funds will continue as a homeless shelter for specified periods, (c) ensure that       
  assisted rehabilitation is sufficient to make the structure safe and sanitary, (d)     
  provide for a procedure to ensure the confidentiality of victims of domestic           
  violence, and assist homeless individuals in obtaining appropriate supportive          


328                                                                                11-08

  services and other available assistance, and (e) meet other generally applicable
  requirements, such as nondiscrimination and equal opportunity. Costs will be
  determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-133 for State and local
  governments. State grantees are exempt from matching the first $100,000 of
  their award, but States must certify that they will provide the benefits of that
  exemption to local government and nonprofit recipients.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the State office or
  official designated as the single point of contact for more information on the
  process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State
  has selected the program for review. The Consolidated Plan required by 24 CFR
  Part 91 must be used for this program.
Application Procedure:
  Application Procedure: To be eligible, each grantee must have a HUD-approved
  Consolidated Plan, which contain descriptions of the community's homeless
  assistance needs, details available resources, and provides a five-year plan and
  an annual action plan. The annual action plan specifies new projects being
  funded, along with any revisions in the overall document. Each participating
  grantee must submit certifications required by HUD.
Award Procedure:
  The HUD field office reviews the grantee's Consolidated Plan and, if approved,
  executes a grant agreement.
Deadlines:
  Each State, metropolitan city, urban county, and territory grantee should submit
  its Consolidated Plan to its local HUD office no later than 45 days before the
  start of its program year as required by 24 CFR Part 91.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  The Consolidated plan is generally approved in 10 working days or deemed
  approved by HUD within 45 days of receipt.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  After the ESG appropriation is set aside for the territories, the amount of each
  grant for formula grantees is determined by the Community Development Block
  Grant (CDBG) formula using several objective measures of community need,
  including poverty, population, housing overcrowding, age of housing and
  growth lag. Allocations among the territories are based on their populations. If,
  according to the formula, an eligible government receives less than .05 percent
  of the yearly appropriation, then that grant is added to the allocation for that
  State. A State must allocate to its local governments or to nonprofit
  organizations the entire grant, except for the up to five percent used to
  administer the grant. The administrative funds must be shared with local
  government grantees in that State. Grantees must match grant funds with an
  equal amount of funds from other sources including donated material or a
  building, leasehold value, additional staff salaries, and volunteer time.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Length and Time Phasing of Assistance: Length and Time Phasing of
  Assistance: Grant awards should be made within 45 days of HUD's receipt and
  approval of the Consolidated Plan. A State should make available to its
  recipients all of its grant allocation within 65 days of the date of the grant award
  by HUD. A State recipient should have its entire grant obligated by 180 days
  from the date on which the State made the grant available to it, and spent the
  entire grant within 24 months of this date. For State homeless prevention funds,
  the State may continue to make available homeless prevention funds within 180
  days of grant award. State recipients that are local government agencies and
  nonprofit organizations then have 30 days to obligate the funds, and up to 24
  months to spend them. Each local government grantee should have all of its
  grant funds obligated by 180 days from its grant award by HUD, and entirely
  spent within 24 months.
Reports:
  Each grantee shall annually report on its uses of funds and program progress in a
  HUD-approved format within 90 days after the close of its program year. State
  and local governments report via an on-line computer linkup with HUD, and a
  consolidated annual performance and evaluation report.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133, "Audits of
  States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Institutions, "State and local
  governments that expend total Federal financial assistance of $500,000 or more
  within their fiscal year must have an independent financial audit conducted for
  that year. This single audit combines the government's annual financial
  statement audit with additional audit coverage of its Federal funds.
Records:
  According to the ESG regulations, grantees and recipients must retain records
  for four years from the date of submission of the annual performance report.
Account Identification:
  86-0192-0-1-604.
Obligations:
