  (Grants) FY 07 $160,000,000; FY 08 est $160,000,000; and FY 09 est                  
  $160,000,000.                                                                       
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  Each grantee shall annually report on its uses of funds and program progress in a   
  HUD-approved format within 90 days after the close of its program year. State       
  and local governments report via an on-line computer linkup with HUD, and a         
  consolidated annual performance and evaluation report.                              
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  It is anticipated that all 360 365 eligible governments awarded funds will apply,   
  and that all 360 365 awards will be granted in FY 20072008. The States and          
  entitlement communities make grants to thousands of homeless emergency              
  shelters and transitional housing programs to assist them in maintaining and        
  operating their facilities and providing essential services to homeless clients. In 
  additions, financial assistance and services are provided to help prevent families  
  and individuals from becoming homeless.                                             
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  The program is governed by streamlined final regulations published in the           
  Federal Register on October 2, 1996, at 24 CFR Part 576. A comprehensive            
  "Emergency Shelter Grants (ESG) Program Desk Guide" is available from HUD           
  at 1-800-998- 9999, Or or can be found on the ESG homepage on HUD's                 
  Website at http://www.hud.gov/offices/cpd/homeless/library/esg/esgdeskguide/.       
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Contact appropriate HUD Field Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.          
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Headquarters Office: Michael RoanhouseRobyn Raysor, Office of Special Needs         
   Assistance Programs, Room 7262, Office of Community Planning and                   
  Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development, Washington,               
  DC 20410. Telephone: (202) 708-1226402-4891, E-mail:                                
  Michael_RoanhouseRobyn.S.Raysor@hud.gov.                                            
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/cpd/homeless/programs/esg/index.cfm.                     
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  14.235, Supportive Housing Program; 14.238, Shelter Plus Care; 14.241,              
  Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS; 97.024, Emergency Food and             
  Shelter National Board Program; 93.151, Health Center Grants for Homeless           
  Populations.                                                                        
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  None.                                                                               
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Proposed ESG projects are part of the prospective grantee's Consolidated Plan,      
  which are reviewed according to criteria set forth in 24 CFR 91.                    
                                                                                      
14.235 SUPPORTIVE HOUSING PROGRAM                                                     
                                                                                      
   (Transitional Housing; Permanent Housing for Homeless Persons                      
  with Disabilities; Innovative Supportive Housing; Supportive Services               
  for Homeless Persons not in Conjunction with Supportive Housing; Safe               
  Havens; and HMIS.)                                                                  
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  COMMUNITY PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT, DEPARTMENT OF                                   
  HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT                                                       
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act of 1987, Title IV, Subtitle C, as            
  amended.                                                                            
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  The Supportive Housing Program is designed to promote the development of            
  supportive housing and supportive services to assist homeless persons in the        
  transition from homelessness and to enable them to live as independently as         
  possible. Program funds may be used to provide: (i) transitional housing within a   
  24-month period as well as up to six months of follow-up services to former         
  residents to assist their adjustment to independent living; (ii) permanent housing  
  provided in conjunction with appropriate supportive services designed to            
  maximize the ability of persons with disabilities to live as independently as       
  possible; (iii) supportive housing that is, or is part of, a particularly innovative
  project for, or alternative method of, meeting the immediate and long-term needs    
  of homeless individuals and families; (iv) supportive services for homeless         
  individuals not provided in conjunction with supportive housing,(v) safe havens     
  for homeless individuals with serious mental illness currently residing on the      
  streets who may not yet be ready for supportive services; and (vi)HMIS for          
  developing management information systems to maintain data on beds, units and       
  homeless individuals.                                                               
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants; Direct Payments for Specified Use.                                  
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Eight types of assistance may be provided for Supportive Housing: acquisition       
  of structures for use as supportive housing or in providing supportive services;    
  rehabilitation of structures for use as supportive housing or in providing          
  supportive services; new construction of buildings for use as supportive housing    
  under limited circumstances; leasing of structures for use as supportive housing    


                                                                                 11-08
  or in providing supportive services; operating costs of supportive housing; costs
  of providing supportive services to homeless persons; costs of implementing and
  operating management information systems; and administrative costs not to
  exceed five percent of the SHP grant.
Applicant Eligibility:
  States, local governments, other governmental entities, private nonprofit
  organizations, and community mental health associations that are public
  nonprofit organizations.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Homeless individuals and families with children.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Private nonprofit entities must establish eligibility based on documentation
  showing they have tax exempt status under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal
  Revenue Code; are a certified United Way Agency; or have a voluntary board
  and a functioning accounting system.
Preapplication Coordination:
  An environmental assessment is required for this program. Any application that
  HUD determines would have a significant adverse impact on the human
  environment would not be eligible for funding. All components of this program
  are excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  One application package prescribing the specific information that applicants
  must submit is available. The standard application forms as furnished by HUD
  must be used for this program. Any proposed project under this program must
  be consistent with the applicable HUD-approved Consolidated Plan and must be
  permissible under applicable zoning ordinances and regulations.
Award Procedure:
  HUD reviews applications, rates and ranks those meeting threshold
  requirements, and prepares a Grant Agreement for those applications selected.
Deadlines:
  A Notice of Fund Availability announces deadlines for completed applications
  and time frames for HUD selections.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Processing of applications will take place in HUD Field Offices and at HUD
  Headquarters, and selection of successful applicants will take place at HUD
  Headquarters. HUD will make its final selections and obligate funds as soon as
  the applications can be processed.
Appeals:
  Applicants may appeal funding decision if they believe a HUD error has
  occurred.
Renewals:
  Information on renewals is contained in the Notice of Fund Availability and the
  application package.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Recipients must match grants for acquisition, rehabilitation, and new
  construction, with an equal amount of funds from other sources. Recipients
  must also provide a cash match for support services and operations. The
  Supportive Housing Program will pay no more than 80 percent of total support
  service costs, 75 percent of total operating costs or 80 percent of total HMIS
  costs.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grants may be made available for up to 3 years for leasing, operating, supportive
  services and HMIS costs.
Reports:
  Each recipient must keep any records and make any reports as specified by
  HUD.
Audits:
  The financial management systems used by governmental entities that are
  recipients under this program must provide for audits in accordance with 24
  CFR 45. Private nonprofit entity recipients are subject to the audit requirements
  of 24 CFR 44. Both 24 CFR Part 44 and 45 stipulate that grant recipients and
  their subgrantees provide audits in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-133.
  HUD may perform further and additional audits as it finds necessary or
  appropriate. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133,
  (Revised, June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000
  or more in Federal Awards will have a single or a program-specific audit
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for the year,
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Each recipient must agree to participate in an evaluation of the program, and to
  keep any records and make any reports that HUD may require for the purpose of
  reporting to Congress on the cost of the program and the social, financial, and
  other advantages of supportive housing components as a means of assisting
  homeless persons.
Account Identification:
  86-0192-0-1-604.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $951,924,000; FY 08 est $1,059,172,000 and FY 09 est
                                                                                  329
