  $1,096,317,000. (NOTE: Amounts reported reflect allocation of new budget           
  authority rather than obligation amounts.)                                         
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  HUD imposes the following limitations: (1) Acquisition and/or rehabilitation       
  construction grants for the Supportive Housing Program may not exceed              
  200,000 (up to $400,000 in high cost areas); new construction may not exceed       
  $400,000; (2) funding of up to 75 percent for operating costs; (3) funding of up   
  to 80 percent for supportive services and HMIS costs; and (4) the program          
  provides grants for leasing costs for up to 3 years.                               
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  5,235 applications were received for the Supportive Housing Program as of the      
  end of fiscal year 2007. 4,964 project applications received conditional grant     
  awards.                                                                            
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  24 CFR 583 published in the Federal Register. Other program information is         
  available from Community Connections at (1-800) 998-9999.                          
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  Designated contact person for the Supportive Housing Program in HUD Field          
  Offices with a Community Planning and Development Division.                        
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Robyn Raysor, Office of Special Needs Assistance Programs, Community               
  Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development,             
  Room 7266, 451 7th Street, S.W., Washington, DC 20410. Telephone: (202)            
  708-4300. Use the same number for FTS. E-mail: Robyn.S.Raysor@hud.gov.             
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/cpd/homeless/index.cfm and                              
  http://www.hudhre.info. The hudhre website provides additional detailed            
  instructions on eligibility and process.                                           
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  14.231, Emergency Shelter Grants Program; 14.238, Shelter Plus Care; 14.241,       
  Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS; 14.249, Section 8 Moderate            
  Rehabilitation Single Room Occupancy.                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  Information not available.                                                         
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Criteria for selecting applications for assistance are defined in a Notice of      
  Funding Availability in the Federal Register.                                      
                                                                                     
14.238 SHELTER PLUS CARE                                                             
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  COMMUNITY PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT, DEPARTMENT OF                                  
  HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT                                                      
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Subtitle F of Title IV of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act of 1987       
  as amended, 42 U.S.C.11403.                                                        
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  The Shelter Plus Care Program provides rental assistance, in connection with       
  supportive services funded from sources other than this program, to homeless       
  persons with disabilities (primarily persons who are seriously mentally ill; have  
  chronic problems with alcohol, drugs, or both, or have acquired                    
  immunodeficiency syndrome and related diseases) and their families. The            
  program provides assistance through four components: (1) Tenant-based Rental       
  Assistance (TRA); (2) Sponsor-based Rental Assistance (SRA); (3) Project-          
  based Rental Assistance (PRA); (4) and Single Room Occupancy for Homeless          
  Individuals (SRO).                                                                 
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Homeless persons with disabilities and their families. Homeless persons with       
  disabilities.                                                                      
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  An eligible applicant is a State, unit of general local government, or public      
  housing agency (PHA).                                                              
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Homeless persons with disabilities and their families. Except in single room       
  occupancy dwellings that are only for homeless individuals with disabilities.      
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State        
  and local governments. Governmental entities and public housing agencies will      
  certify to their eligibility.                                                      
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  An environmental assessment is required for this program. Any site that would      
  have a significant adverse impact on the human environment will not be eligible    
  for funding. All components of this program are excluded from coverage under       
  E.O. 12372.                                                                        
Application Procedure:                                                               
  An electronic application package prescribing the specific information that        
  applicants must submit through the local Continuum of Care (CoC) is available      
  from HUD through the annual CoC Notice of Fund Availability, found at              


330                                                                            11-08

  http://hudhre.info. The standard electronic application form as furnished by
  HUD must be used for this program. Any proposed project under this program
  must be consistent with the applicable HUD-approved Consolidated Plan.
Award Procedure:
  HUD reviews applications, rates and ranks those meeting threshold
  requirements, and makes conditional grant awards to those applications most
  highly ranked, in accordance with the Notice of Fund Availability (NOFA).
Deadlines:
  A Notice of Fund Availability announces deadlines for completed applications
  and time frames for HUD selections.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Processing of applications and selection of successful applicants will take place
  at HUD field offices and Headquarters. HUD Headquarters will make selection
  and obligate funds as soon as the applications can be processed.
Appeals:
  Applicants may appeal the results of HUD's review and selection process if they
  believe a HUD error has occurred. Appeals must be in writing to the Assistant
  Secretary for Community Planning and Development and must state what HUD
  error the applicant believes occurred.
Renewals:
  One year funding for projects eligible for renewal as contained in the Notice of
  Fund Availability and application.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Recipients must match the rental assistance by supportive services that are equal
  in value to the aggregate amount of rental assistance and appropriate to the
  needs of the population to be served.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  HUD will provide rental assistance under the TRA and SRA components for a
  five year period. Rental assistance under the SRO component will be for a ten-
  year period. If units are rehabilitated, and meet the standards required, assistance
  under the PRA component will be for a ten-year period; otherwise it will be for a
  five-year period.
Reports:
  Each recipient must keep any records and make any reports as specified by
  HUD.
Audits:
  The financial management systems used by governmental entities that are
  recipients under this program must provide for audits in accordance with OMB
  Circular No. A-133 as stipulated in 24 CFR 45. HUD may perform further and
  additional audits as it finds necessary or appropriate.
Records:
  Each recipient must keep any records and make any reports that HUD may
  require.
Account Identification:
  86-0192-0-1-604.
Obligations:
  Grants) FY 07 $315,226,000; FY 08 est $350,741,000; and FY 09 est
  $363,041,000. (NOTE: Amounts reported reflect allocation of new budget
  authority rather than obligation amounts.)
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  HUD imposes the following limitations: No more than ten percent of the
  assistance available for any fiscal year may be used for programs located within
  any one unit of general local government. At least ten percent of the funds
  available must be made available for each of the four components. In FY 2007,
  the average grant amount was $374,071.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In Fiscal Year 2007 HUD funded 138 new Shelter Plus Care projects and 806
  Shelter Plus Care renewal projects.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  24 CFR Part 582 Shelter Plus Care Program Final Rule.
Regional or Local Office:
  Designated contact person or monitor for the Shelter Plus Care Program in HUD
  Field Offices with a Community Planning and Development Division. Program
  information may also be obtained from Community Connections at HUD at (1-
  800)998-9999.
Headquarters Office:
  Robyn Raysor, Office of Special Needs Assistance Programs, Community
  Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development,
  Room 7266, 451 7th Street, S.W., Washington, DC 20410. Telephone: (202)
  708-4300. Use the same number for FTS. E-mail Robyn.S.Raysor@hud.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/cpd/homeless/index.cfm and
  http://www.hudhre.info. The hudhre website provides additional detailed
  instructions on eligibility and process.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  14.231, Emergency Shelter Grants Program; 14.235, Supportive Housing
  Program; 14.241, Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None available.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
