  The criteria for selecting proposals will be listed under each Notice of Fund        
  Availability.                                                                        
                                                                                       
                                                                                       
14.239 HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIPS PROGRAM

                                                                                       
   (HOME Program)                                                                      
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  COMMUNITY PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT, DEPARTMENT OF                                    
  HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT                                                        
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  National Affordable Housing Act, Title II, 1990, as amended.                         
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  (1) To expand the supply of affordable housing, particularly rental housing, for     
  low and very low income Americans; (2) to strengthen the abilities of State and      
  local governments to design and implement strategies for achieving adequate          
  supplies of decent, affordable housing; (3) to provide both financial and            
  technical assistance to participating jurisdictions, including the development of    
  model programs for developing affordable low income housing; and (4) to              
  extend and strengthen partnerships among all levels of government and the            
  private sector, including for-profit and nonprofit organizations, in the production  
  and operation of affordable housing.                                                 
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Formula Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  For use by participating jurisdictions or Insular Areas for housing rehabilitation,  
  tenant-based rental assistance, assistance to homebuyers, acquisition of housing     
  and new construction of housing. Funding may also be used for other necessary        
  and reasonable activities related to the development of non-luxury housing, such     
  as site acquisition, site improvements, demolition and relocation. Ten percent of    
  a participating jurisdiction's allocation may be used for administrative costs.      
  Funds may not be used for public housing modernization, matching funds for           
  other Federal programs, reserve accounts or operating subsidies for rental           
  housing, Annual Contributions Contracts, or activities under the Low Income          
  Housing Preservation Act except for priority purchasers. In December 2003, the       
  American Dream Downpayment Act authorized a new program, American                    
  Dream Downpayment Initiative (ADDI), to be administered as a part of the             
  HOME Program. ADDI will grant funds to all 50 states and local participating         
  jurisdictions that have a population of at least 150,000 or will receive an          
  allocation of at least $50,000 under the ADDI formula. Participating                 
  jurisdictions may use ADDI funds to provide downpayment, closing costs and           
  rehabilitation assistance to low-income families to help them                        
  achievehomeownership. Technical Assistance is available to help HOME                 
  participating jurisdictions design and implement HOME programs, including:           
  improving their ability to design and implement housing strategies and               
  incorporate energy efficiency into affordable housing; facilitating the exchange     
  of information to help Participating Jurisdictions carry out their programs;         
  facilitating the establishment and efficient operation of employer-assisted          
  housing programs and land bank programs; and/or encouraging private lenders          
  and for-profit developers of low-income housing to participate in public-private     
  partnerships. Community Housing Development Organization Technical                   
  Assistance (CHDO TA) to promote the ability of CHDOs to maintain,                    
  rehabilitate and construct housing for low-income homeowners and tenants; and        
  help women who reside in low- and moderate-income neighborhoods to                   
  rehabilitate and construct housing in these neighborhoods.                           
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  States, cities, urban counties, and consortia (of contiguous units of general local  
  governments with a binding agreement) are eligible to receive formula                
  allocations; funds are also set aside for grants to Insular Areas. Technical         
  Assistance applicants: a for-profit and non-profit professional and technical        
  services company or firm that has demonstrated capacity to provide technical         
  assistance services; a HOME participating jurisdiction or agency thereof; a          
  public purpose organization responsible to the chief elected official of a PJ and    
  established pursuant to State or local legislation; an agency or authority           
  established by two or more PJs to carry out activities consistent with the           
  purposes of the HOME program; a national or regional non-profit organization         
  that has membership comprised predominantly of entities or officials of entities     
  of PJs or PJs agencies or established organizations. CHDO Technical                  
  Assistance: public and private non-profit intermediary organizations that            
  customarily provide services (in more than one community) related to affordable      
  housing or neighborhood revitalization of CHDOs, or similar organizations that       
  engage in community revitalization, including all eligible organization under        
  section 233 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act, as             
  amended.                                                                             
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  For rental housing, at least 90 percent of HOME funds must benefit low and           
  very low income families at 60 percent of the area median income; the                
  remaining ten percent must benefit families below 80 percent of the area             
  median. Assistance to homeowners and homebuyers must be to families below            
  80 percent of the area median.                                                       


                                                                                  11-08
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State
  and local governments. Specific requirements of 24 CFR part 85 apply to
  participating jurisdictions, State recipients and any governmental subrecipient
  receiving HOME funds. OMB Circular No. A-122 and specific requirements of
  24 CFR part 84 apply to nonprofit subrecipients which are not governmental.
Preapplication Coordination:
  HUD produces an annual list of each jurisdiction's formula allocation. This
  program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Submit a Consolidated Plan, an annual action plan and certifications to HUD.
  The Consolidated Plan and annual action plan cover four major formula-
  distribution HUD community development programs, including HOME. The
  annual action plan must describe how the funds will be used. The technical
  assistance funds are awarded on a competitive basis through a national
  competition, under the Notice of Fund Availability. An application package
  prescribing the specific information that an applicant must submit will be
  available from HUD when the NOFA is published in the Federal Register.
Award Procedure:
  The responsible HUD Field Office notifies grantees of the formula awards.
  HUD prepares the grant agreement for formula applicants and for those
  applications selected on a competitive basis.
Deadlines:
  Action plans should be submitted to HUD at least 45 days before the start of the
  program year. In no event will HUD accept a submission earlier than November
  15 or later than August 16 of the federal fiscal year for which funds are
  allocated. The Notice of Funding Availability for technical assistance for
  competitive grants announces deadlines for applications.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  HUD will review for completeness and consistency with the purposes of the Act,
  within 45 days of receipt from a jurisdiction. The selection of successful
  competitive technical assistance applicants Will take place at HUD
  Headquarters.
Appeals:
  Formula allocations may not be appealed.
Renewals:
  Every fifth year, localities submit a Consolidated Plan. Each year jurisdictions
  must submit an action plan and certifications. A new application procedure is
  initiated for each technical assistance request.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The formula is a system of factors established to reflect a jurisdiction's need for
  an increased supply of affordable housing for low and very low income families.
  Designed by HUD to meet statutory criteria, it is based on a jurisdiction's
  inadequate housing supply, substandard housing, the number of low income
  households in housing units likely to be in need of rehabilitation, the cost of
  producing housing, poverty, and the relative fiscal incapacity of the jurisdiction
  to carry out housing activities without Federal assistance. A separate formula
  based on need and prior commitment to homebuyer assistance is used to allocate
  ADDI funds to participating jurisdictions. Each jurisdiction must make
  matching contributions to affordable housing throughout a fiscal year in an
  amount not less than 25 percent of the HOME funds drawn from the U.S.
  Treasury during the federal fiscal year for projects. Jurisdictions in fiscal distress
  receive full or partial (50 percent) relief from this requirement.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grant funds are drawn down from the U. S. Treasury based upon individual
  project development progress. The HOME program uses an electronic fund
  transfer disbursement and information system. Once drawn down, funds must
  be expended within fifteen days. All funds must be committed within 24
  months and expended within 5 years.
Reports:
  Financial management and annual performance reports.
Audits:
  In accordance with 24 CFR Part 44 and OMB Circular No. A-133. In
  accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, (Revised, June 24,
  1997), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal Awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for the year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Records which enable HUD to determine whether the participating jurisdiction
  has met the requirements of the program must be kept for the most recent five
  year period. Those records required to document the period of affordability
  must be maintained for five years beyond the required period.
Account Identification:
  86-0205-0-1-604.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $1,715,671,000; FY 08 est $1,654,000,000; and FY 09 est
  $1,966,640,000 (NOTE: Amounts reported reflect allocation of new budget
                                                                                       331
