  authority rather than obligation amounts.)                                           
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  $256,131 to $116,046,814; $2,607,003.                                                
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  As of March 31, 2008, 844,754 units were committed; 781,101 units were               
  completed; and 162,908 families have received tenant-based rental assistance.        
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  24 CFR Part 92.                                                                      
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  Contact appropriate HUD Field Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.           
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Clifford Taffet, Director, Office of Affordable Housing Programs, Room 7164,         
  Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban                  
  Development, 451 7th Street, S.W., Washington, DC 20410. Telephone: (202)            
  708-2470. Use the same number for FTS. E-mail: Clifford.Taffet@hud.gov.              
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/cpd/homeprogram.                                          
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  None.                                                                                
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  None.                                                                                
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  None.

                                                                                       
                                                                                       
14.241 HOUSING OPPORTUNITIES FOR PERSONS WITH                                          
AIDS                                                                                   
                                                                                       
      (HOPWA)                                                                          
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  COMMUNITY PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT, DEPARTMENT OF                                    
  HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT                                                        
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  AIDS Housing Opportunity Act, Public Law 101-624.                                    
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To provide States and localities with the resources and incentives to devise long-   
  term comprehensive strategies for meeting the housing needs of persons with          
  AIDS or related diseases and their families.                                         
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Formula Grants; Project Grants.

                                                                                       
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

                                                                                       
  Grantees and project sponsors may use HOPWA funds to provide for any of the

                                                                                       
  following eligible activities, subject to certain standards and limitations provided

                                                                                       
  in the regulations: (l) Housing information services including, but not limited

                                                                                       
  to, counseling, information, and referral services to assist eligible individuals to

                                                                                       
  locate, acquire, finance and maintain housing; (2) Resource identification to

                                                                                       
  establish, coordinate and develop housing assistance resources; (3) Acquisition,

                                                                                       
  rehabilitation, conversion, lease, and repair of facilities to provide housing and

                                                                                       
  services; (4) New construction (for single room occupancy (SRO) dwellings and

                                                                                       
  community residences only); (5) Project- or tenant-based rental assistance

                                                                                       
  including assistance for shared housing arrangements; (6) Short-term rent,

                                                                                       
  mortgage, and utility payments to prevent the homelessness of the tenant or

                                                                                       
  mortgagor of a dwelling; (7) permanent housing placement assistance; (8)

                                                                                       
  Supportive services including, but not limited to, health, such as uncompensated

                                                                                       
  costs subject to limitations at 574.310(a)(2), mental health, assessment, drug and

                                                                                       
  alcohol abuse treatment and counseling, day care, nutritional services, intensive

                                                                                       
  care when required, and assistance in gaining access to local, State, and Federal    
  government benefits and services except that health services may not be              
  provided to family members (Per the HOPWA regulations, health services may           
  only be provided to an individual with HIV/AIDS (not family members) and             
  payments for health-care costs are limited by 574.300(b)(7) to items and             
  services that are not made or reasonably expected to be made under                   
  compensation programs, insurance policy, or health benefits programs. HUD            
  issued guidance on the restricted use of HOPWA funds for AIDS Drug                   
  Assistance and other health-care costs). (9) Operating costs for housing facilities  
  including maintenance, security, operation, insurance, utilities, furnishings,       
  equipment, supplies, and other incidental costs; (10) Technical assistance in        
  establishing and operating a community residence, including planning and other       
  pre-development or pre-construction expenses and including, but not limited to,      
  costs relating to community outreach and educational activities regarding AIDS       
  (and the fiscal year 2004 appropriation act and subsequent acts authorize the use    
  of funds for technical assistance, training and oversight); (11) Administrative      
  expenses: 3 percent for grantees and 7 percent for project sponsors, including       
  costs of staff necessary to carry out eligible activities; and (12) For competitive  
  grants only, any other activity proposed by the applicant and approved by HUD.       
  Restrictions: Appropriate supportive services must be provided as part of any        
  HOPWA assisted housing. General standards for housing activities are                 
  established, including minimum use periods for structures (10 years for new          
  construction, substantial rehabilitation or acquisition and 3 years for other non-   
  substantial rehabilitation or repair). Resident rent payments are required for       


332                                                                              11-08

  rental assistance and for residing in rental housing. Additional standards for
  rental assistance, short-term supported housing, and community residences are
  provided.
Applicant Eligibility:
  (1) Entitlement grants will be awarded by formula to States and qualifying cities
  for eligible metropolitan statistical areas (EMSAs) with the largest number of
  cases of AIDS. The most populous city will serve as the applicant/grantee for the
  EMSAs award; and (2) competitively awarded grants will be awarded to: (a)
  States, local governments and nonprofit organizations for special projects of
  national significance; and (b) projects submitted by States and localities in areas
  that do not qualify for HOPWA formula allocations. Nonprofit organizations are
  eligible to apply for projects of national significance, but may also serve as a
  project sponsor for other types of grants. As required by the Appropriation Act,
  HUD gives priority to the renewal of permanent supportive housing projects.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Eligible beneficiaries are low income persons with HIV or AIDS and their
  families. However, regardless of income, persons living with HIV/AIDS may
  receive housing information. Persons living near community residences may
  receive educational information.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State
  and local governments and No. A-110 and A-122 section report to private
  nonprofit organizations. Governmental entities will certify to their eligibility.
Preapplication Coordination:
  An environmental assessment is required for this program. Any activity
  provided in an application that HUD determines would have a significant
  adverse impact on the human environment would not be eligible for funding.
  All components of this program are excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Government recipients must have submitted a Consolidated Plan, an annual
  action plan and certifications to HUD. The Consolidated Plan and annual action
  plan cover four major formula-distribution HUD community development
  programs, including HOPWA. The annual action plan must describe how funds
  will be used. Ten percent of HOPWA funds and the technical assistance funds
  are awarded on a competitive basis through a national competition, under the
  SuperNOFA, a Notice of Fund Availability. Application packages prescribing
  the specific information that applicants must submit will be available from HUD
  when the SuperNOFA is published in the Federal Register. The fiscal year 2008
  appropriation act authorizes the Secretary to renew all expiring contracts for
  permanent supportive housing that were funded under section 854(c)(3) of AIDS
  Housing Act that meet all program requirements before awarding funds for new
  contracts and activities authorized under this section: Provided further, That the
  Secretary may use funds under this heading for training, oversight, and technical
  assistance activities, and amounts will be adjusted based on approved
  appropriations for this program.
Award Procedure:
  HUD reviews Consolidated Plan submissions and competitive applications
  under the SuperNOFA. HUD prepares a Grant Agreement for formula
  applicants and for those applications selected on a competitive basis.
Deadlines:
  A Notice of Funding Availability (NOFA) for competitive grants announces
  deadlines for applications. For formula grants, action plans associated with the
  Consolidated Plan must be submitted based on the grantee's operating year, but
  no earlier than December 1 or no later than August 16 of the fiscal year for
  which funds are allocated.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Processing of Consolidated Plan submissions will take place in HUD Field
  Offices and selection of successful competitive applicants will take place in
  HUD Headquarters with post-selection technical submissions processed in HUD
  Field Offices. HUD will make its final selections and obligate funds as soon as
  the applications are processed.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The formula for entitlement grants is found at 24 CFR 574.130. Ninety percent
  of appropriated amounts are to be distributed by formula entitlement. Seventy-
  five percent of this 90 percent is distributed to qualifying cities for eligible
  metropolitan statistical areas (EMSA) and eligible States for are as outside of
  EMSAs, based on each metropolitan area's or State's proportionate share of the
  cumulative number of AIDS cases in all eligible metropolitan areas and eligible
  States. The remaining twenty-five percent is allocated among the qualifying
  cities in eligible metropolitan statistical areas, but not States, where the per
  capita incidence of AIDS for the year (April 1 to March 31) preceding the fiscal
  year of the appropriation is higher than the average for all metropolitan areas
  with more than 500,000 population. The EMSAs allocation is based on its
  proportionate share of the incidence of AIDS cases. The high incidence factor is
  computed by multiplying: (1) the population of the metropolitan area; and (2)
  the difference between its twelve-month-per-capita-incidence rate and the rate
