  for all metropolitan areas with more than 500,000 population. HUD will use         
  data collected by the Department of Health and Human Services, Public Health       
  Service, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), National Center for     
  Infectious Diseases, Division of HIV/AIDS, definition of metropolitan areas        
  issued by OMB, and population data provided by the Census. The CDC data            
  utilized will be as reported as of March 31 of the fiscal year immediately         
  preceding the fiscal year of the appropriation. Some adjustments to allocations    
  are made in the annual appropriations acts.                                        
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Funds should be expended in a timely manner or may be subject to deobligation      
  after 3 years from the date of the signing of the grant agreement or operating     
  start date established in a grant agreement for a competitive grant, with an       
  allowance for a one-year extension, if approved by HUD.                            
Reports:                                                                             
  Annual performance reporting requirements are applicable to both competitive       
  and formula grantees which will provide information, including the number of       
  persons assisted, the types of assistance provided, and any other information that 
  HUD may require, to assess the overall performance and accomplishments of the      
  grantees program activities under approved goals and objectives. Grantees must     
  complete the annual report for each operating year in which HOPWA funds were       
  expended, including the planned housing output by type of housing assistance,      
  and report on this with actual accomplishment, including results for client        
  outcomes in maintaining stable housing, reducing risks of homelessness and         
  improved access to care. Recipients jurisdiction file a consolidated Annual        
  Performance and Evaluation Report (CAPER)which are required and are due to         
  HUD 90 days following the completion of the grantee's operating year along         
  with data elements to be provided in HUD's information technology system for       
  Consolidated Plan programs (IDIS). Information is collected periodically in the    
  Department's Integrated Disbursement and Information System (IDIS) to provide      
  complete annual information on the use of program and other funds.                 
Audits:

  The financial management systems used by governmental entities that are            
  grantees or project sponsors of other grantees must provide for audits in

  accordance with 24 CFR 85. A nonprofit organization serving as a grantee or        
  project sponsor for a grantee is subject to the audit requirements set forth in 24

  CFR part 84.                                                                       
Records:                                                                             
  Grantees will ensure that records are maintained for a seven-year period to        
  document compliance with the program. Grantees must maintain current and           
  accurate data on the race and ethnicity of program participants.                   
Account Identification:                                                              
  86-0308-0-1-604.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Grants) FY 07 $286,110,000; FY 08 est $300,100,000; and FY 09 est                 
  $300,100,000. (NOTE: Amounts reported reflect allocation of new budget             
  authority rather than obligation amounts.)                                         
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  The range of Fiscal Year 2008 formula allocations is $56,811,000 to the largest    
  grant and $115,000 to the smallest grant; Grants selected under the fiscal year    
  2008 competition are pending selection as renewal or new projects; the FY 2007     
  selections range in size from $269,278 to $1,424,500.                              
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  HOPWA program addresses the housing needs of low-income persons with               
  HIV/AIDS and their families. Assistance enables these special needs households     
  to establish or maintain stable housing, reduce their risks of homelessness and    
  improve their access to health-care and other support. Housing also serves as a    
  base from which to participate in advances in HIV treatment and related care.      
  HOPWA funds have helped many communities establish strategic AIDS housing          
  plans, better coordinate local and private efforts, fill gaps in local systems of  
  care, and create new housing resources. In assisting low-income persons who are    
  living with HIV or AIDS and their families avoid homelessness, grantees have       
  provided for a wide-array of housing with social services and engage in program    
  planning and development activities in connection with health-care, AIDS drug      
  assistance and other support offered through community-wide efforts. Formula       
  and competitive grantees are reporting that 67,850 units of housing have been      
  supported through HOPWA funds in program year 2006-7. Grantees also report         
  that about 91 percent of HOPWA's beneficiaries have family incomes of less         
  than $1,000 per month and all families are low-income (less than 80 percent of     
  area median income), including 77 percent with extremely low incomes (less         
  than 30 percent of area median incomes).                                           
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  Final Rule at 24 CFR 574, as amended; and Consolidated Plan Final Rule at 24       
  CFR part 91.                                                                       
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  Designated Community Planning and Development staff in each HUD Field              
  Office. HUD Field Offices are listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.                
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  David Vos, Director, Office of HIV/AIDS Housing, Community Planning and            
  Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 Seventh              
  Street S.W., Room 7212, Washington, DC 20410. Telephone: (202) 708-1934,           


                                                                               11-08 
  (1-800) 877-8339 TTY, E-Mail: HOPWA@hud.gov. Information on HOPWA
  is also available on the HUD home page on the world wide web at
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/cpd/aidshousing. HOPWA Technical Assistance is
  available to HOPWA grantees and Project Sponsors through the HOPWA
  National Technical Assistance program.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/cpd/aidshousing.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  14.218, Community Development Block Grants/Entitlement Grants.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  AIDS Alabama, Inc., of Birmingham was awarded a 2007 HOPWA renewal
  grant of $879,963 to continue the Alabama Rural AIDS Project. This permanent
  housing support reaches 27 households through the use of small housing
  facilities operated by local providers in the state's 35 most rural counties. The
  Delaware HIV Consortium was awarded a HOPWA 2007 renewal grant of
  $749,291 to continue Women's Space, involving the operation of a permanent
  housing facility which provides 10 units of housing and on-site supportive
  services to assist women with HIV/AIDS address co-occurring substance use
  and/or mental health disorders. Broward House, Inc., Recently Incarcerated
  Substance Abuse Housing (RISAH) in Fort Lauderdale, Florida was awarded a
  new 2007 HOPWA Special Project of National Significance grant of
  $1,339,000. RISAH will provide nine units of double occupancy transitional
  housing and substance abuse treatment to 36 post incarcerated individuals
  annually. Contact: Greyston Health Services Inc., 23 Park Avenue, Younkers,
  NY 10703. Steven Brown, President and CEO, Telephone: (914) 376-3900; Fax:
  (914) 376-1333; and E-mail: sabrown@greyston.org.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  For competitive grants, the Statute establishes rating criteria with more specific
  detail outlined within the published in a NOFA and by a CPD notice on
  renewals.
14.244 EMPOWERMENT ZONES PROGRAM
   (Empowerment Zones and Enterprise Communities)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  COMMUNITY PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT, DEPARTMENT OF
  HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORIZATION:
  Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993, Title XIII, Public Law 103-66,
  Sections 952-954; Taxpayer Relief Act of l997, Public Law l05-34; Community
  Renewal Tax Relief Act of 2000, Public Law 106-554.
OBJECTIVES:
  The purpose of this program is to establish Renewal Communities (RCs) and
  Empowerment Zones (EZs) in certain distressed urban and rural areas, to reduce
  poverty and to stimulate business growth, job creation, and other aspects of
  economic and community development primarily through billions of dollars in
  tax incentives for businesses to hire residents of these communities, expand their
  facilities, and upgrade their equipment needs. The Department of Housing and
  Urban Development (HUD) has designated 40 RCs in one competition to date.
  Twenty-eight of these RCs are in urban areas and twelve are in rural areas.
  HUD has designated 30 EZs to date in three separate competitions and all of
  these EZs are in urban areas. No RC or EZ has more than 200,000 residents.
  More information regarding the objectives of the Renewal Community and
  Empowerment Zone programs is available at www.hud.gov/cr. The tax
  incentives are described in IRS Publication 954 and on IRS forms including
  forms 8844 and 8850. total area of the noncontiguous parcels must not exceed
  2,000 acres; (f) Is located entirely within the jurisdiction of the unit or units of
  general local government making the nomination, and is located in no more than
  two contiguous States; and (g) Does not include any portion of a central business
  district, as this term is used in the most recent Census of Retail Trade, unless the
  poverty rate for each census tract in the district is not less than 35 percent.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants; Direct Payments for Specified Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  DESIGNATION AS AN EMPOWERMENT ZONE. Currently, grant funds are
  available over the life of the program under the provisions of the appropriations
  statutes enacted by Congress and the business tax incentives for RCs and EZs
  extend through 2009.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible applicants were one or more units of general local government, along
  with the State or States in which they were located, that nominated an area
  meeting the criteria for eligibility of nomination, including population
  thresholds, poverty, unemployment and distress criteria, and boundary and
  geographic size limitations. HUD designated areas from among the nominations
  submitted. The designations continue until December 31, 2009.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Residents and businesses in designated urban areas. To determine if an address
  qualifies for the business tax incentives visit www.hud.gov/crlocator.
Credentials/Documentation:
                                                                                     333
