  Interested persons should visit HUD's Renewal Community/Empowerment                 
  website www.hud.gov/cr and the USDA Empowerment Zone website                        
  www.ezec.gov periodically for information on applying for future competitions       
  to designate additional Renewal Communities and/or Empowerment Zones, and           
  for information on taking advantage of the benefits in an existing RC or EZ.        
  HUD designated EZs in 1994, 1998, and 2002, and RCs in 2002. There is               
  currently no authority for HUD to make additional designations.                     
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                      
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Interested persons should visit HUD's website for the Renewal Community and         
  Empowerment Zone programs www.hud.gov/cr, and the USDA website for the              
  rural Empowerment Zone program www.ezec.hud, periodically for information           
  on any upcoming competitions and detailed information on procedures required        
  to apply for a Renewal Community or Empowerment Zone designation.                   
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  The Secretary of HUD will review applications for the designation of nominated      
  urban areas to determine the quality of the strategic plans submitted by            
  nominating State local government(s); other factors established by HUD; and         
  geographic diversity.                                                               
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Applications must be received by the deadline established by the Secretary of       
  HUD.                                                                                
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  4 to 6 months following application deadline if authority to make additional        
  designations is provided.                                                           
Appeals:                                                                              
  The Secretary of HUD may waive for good cause any provision of the program          
  not required by statute, where it is determined that the requirement would          
  produce a result adverse to the purpose and objectives of the program.              
Renewals:

  None.                                                                               
Formula and Matching Requirements:

  None.                                                                               
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Period of designation: The December 31, 2001, designation of areas as new

                                                                                      
  Empowerment Zones and Renewal Communities shall remain in full effect

  during the period beginning on the date of designation and ending on the earliest

                                                                                      
  of: (a) December 31, 2009; (b) The termination date designated by the State and

                                                                                      
  local governments in their application for nomination; or (c) The date the

                                                                                      
  Secretary modifies or revokes the designation.

                                                                                      
Reports:                                                                              
  HUD will require periodic reports for the Empowerment Zones and Renewal

                                                                                      
  Communities designated pursuant to this part. These reports will identify the

                                                                                      
  community, local government and State actions which have been taken in              
  accordance with the strategic plan and tax incentive utilization plan. In addition  
  to these reports, such other information relating to designated Empowerment         
  Zones and Renewal Communities as HUD shall request from time to time,               
  including information documenting nondiscrimination in hiring and                   
  employment by business within the designated Empowerment Zone or Renewal            
  Community, shall be submitted promptly.                                             
Audits:                                                                               
  Periodic performance reviews. HUD will regularly evaluate the progress of the       
  strategic plan and tax incentive utilization plan in each designated                
  Empowerment Zone and Renewal Community on the basis of performance                  
  reviews to be conducted on site and other information submitted. HUD may            
  also commission evaluations of the Empowerment Zone and Renewal                     
  Community programs as a whole by an impartial third party, at such intervals as     
  HUD may establish.                                                                  
Records:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Account Identification:                                                               
  86-0315-0-1-451; 86-0315-4-1-451.                                                   
Obligations:                                                                          
  FY 07 $0; FY 08 est $0; and FY 09 est $0. (NOTE: Amounts reported reflect           
  allocation of new budget authority rather than obligation amounts.)                 
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  HUD awarded EZ grants totaling $25.6 million to each of the 15 round II urban       
  EZs in varying amounts from 1998-2005. The round I EZs received grants              
  funded by the US Department of Health and Human Services. The round I and           
  II EZs also receive the business tax incentives. Under current law, Renewal         
  Communities and Round III EZs receive only the tax incentives.                      
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  On December 31, 2001, HUD designated 8 new urban Round III Empowerment              
  Zones, as well as 40 Renewal Communities in urban and rural areas nationwide.       
  The tax credits claimed by sole proprietor business owners for hiring a resident    
  of a Renewal Community or Empowerment Zone to work in the designated area           
  increased from $61 million in 2002 to $105 million in 2004 to almost $128           
  million in 2005. The certificates filed by employers with state governments to      
  claim the Work Opportunity Tax Credits for hiring youth or summer youth             


334                                                                             11-08

  residents of the areas increased from 35,077 in 2003 to 83,758 in 2005. The
  allocations of commercial revitalization deductions for construction of
  commercial and industrial buildings in the Renewal Communities increased
  from $209 million in 2003 to $259 million in 2006.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  24 CFR Part 598 and 599 Designation of Round III Urban Empowerment Zones
  and Renewal Communities; Interim Rule. Part 598 was amended on December
  13, 2007. Also, see "Tax Incentive Guide for Business in the Renewal
  Communities, Empowerment Zones and Enterprise Communities", "Tax
  Incentives + Businesses = Jobs," and "Spotlight on Results," all of which are
  available by calling (1-800)998-9999.
Regional or Local Office:
  All HUD Field offices with a Community Planning and Development Division,
  ATTN: Director of Community Planning and Development. See Appendix IV
  of the Catalog for Field Offices addresses/phone numbers.
Headquarters Office:
  HUD Office of Community Planning and Development, Office of Community
  Renewal. Telephone: (202) 708-6339.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.hud.gov/cr.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  10.772, Empowerment Zones Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Interested parties should visit HUD's website for the Renewal Community and
  Empowerment Zone programs (www.hud.gov/cr) and the USDA website for the
  rural Empowerment Zone program(www.ezec.hud) periodically for information
  on any upcoming competitions and detailed information on criteria to be used to
  select proposals for Renewal Community and Empowerment Zone designations.
14.246 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK
GRANTS/BROWNFIELDS ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
INITIATIVE
   (BEDI; Section 108)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  COMMUNITY PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT, DEPARTMENT OF
  HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORIZATION:
  Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, Section 108(q), as
  amended, Public Law 93-383.
OBJECTIVES:
  To return Brownfield's to productive economic use by assisting units of general
  local government in carrying out economic development projects on
  contaminated land or buildings. BEDI grants are designed to enhance the
  security of loans guaranteed under the Section 108 program or improve the
  viability of projects financed with Section 108 funds.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Assistance may be used for any activity eligible under Section 108(a) of the
  Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, except that fiscal year 2008
  grant funds may not be used to fund reserves. Grant funds may only be used in
  conjunction with a new, that is, not yet approved, Section 108 Loan for the same
  project.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Units of general local government.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  The principal beneficiaries are low and moderate income persons.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State
  and local governments.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Proposed activities must be consistent with a unit of general local government's
  consolidated plan submitted for HUD's Community Planning and Development
  programs. Proposed activities must also meet applicable citizen participation
  requirements. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372,
  "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult
  the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or her State
  for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying
  for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Proposals may only be submitted in response to competitions announced in a
  Federal Register publication. The Federal Register publication of a Notice of
  Funds Availability (NOFA) will detail the purpose of each separate program, the
  application deadlines, the funds available for each competition, the submission
  requirements and the competitive factors that will be considered in awarding
  grants.
