  An eligible applicant is a PHA or private nonprofit organization. Private        
  nonprofits have to contract with a PHA to administer the rental assistance.      
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                           
  Homeless individuals.                                                            
Credentials/Documentation:                                                         
  Private nonprofit organizations and public housing agencies will certify to their
  eligibility.                                                                     
Preapplication Coordination:                                                       
  An environmental assessment is required for this program. Any site that would    
  have a significant adverse impact on the human environment will not be eligible  
  for funding. All components of this program are excluded from coverage under     
  E.O. 12372.                                                                      
Application Procedure:

  An application package prescribing the specific information that applicants must 
  submit is available from HUD through the annual Continuum of Care Notice of

  Fund Availability. The standard application form as furnished by HUD must be     
  used for this program. Any proposed project under this program must be           
  consistent with the applicable HUD-approved Consolidated Plan.                   
Award Procedure:                                                                   
  HUD reviews applications, rates and ranks those meeting threshold                
  requirements, and makes conditional grant awards to those applications most      
  highly ranked.                                                                   
Deadlines:                                                                         
  A Notice of Fund Availability announces deadlines for completed applications     
  and time frames for HUD selections.                                              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                
  Processing of applications and selection of successful applicants will take place
  at HUD field offices and Headquarters, HUD Headquarters will make selection.     
  Funds, however, will not be obligated until the technical submission is approved.
Appeals:                                                                           
  Applicants may appeal the results of HUD's review and selection process if they  
  believe a HUD error has occurred. Appeals must be in writing to the Assistant    
  Secretary for Community Planning and Development and must state what HUD         
  error the applicant believes has occurred.                                       
Renewals:                                                                          
  On an annual basis, dependent on fund availability.                              
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                 
  None.                                                                            
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                             
  Under the SRO Program, an eleven-year Annual Contribution Contract (ACC) is      
  signed by the PHA with HUD. After the ACC is signed, the PHA and owner           
  sign an AHAP and the owner has 12 months from the date of ACC execution to       
  complete rehabilitation on the project. Once the rehabilitation is completed and 
  the PHA inspects the units to ensure compliance with HUD's physical condition    
  standards (PCS), a 10-year Housing Assistance Payments (HAP) Contract is         
  signed between the PHA and project owner.                                        
Reports:                                                                           
  Each recipient must keep records and any reports as specified by HUD, such as    
  required annual reports.                                                         
Audits:                                                                            
  The financial management systems used by governmental entities that are          
  recipients under this program must provide for audits in accordance with 24      
  CFR 44. HUD may perform further and additional audits as it finds necessary or   
  appropriate.                                                                     
Records:                                                                           
  Each recipient must keep any records and make any reports that HUD may           
  require.                                                                         
Account Identification:                                                            
  86-0192-0-1-604.                                                                 
Obligations:                                                                       
  (Grants) FY 07 $14,450,000; FY 08 est $16,077,000; and FY 09 est                 
                                                                                   
  $16,642,000.

                                                                                   
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

                                                                                   
  In FY 2007, the three awards ranged from the smallest of $255,360 to the largest

                                                                                   
  of $1,027,200 for an average award of $536,960.

                                                                                   
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

  This program has awarded 463 grants through the end of fiscal year 2007.         
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                           
  24 CFR Part 882, Subpart H Section 8 Moderate Rehabilitation Single Room         
  Occupancy Program for Homeless Individuals; Final Rule, as well as 24 CFR,       
  Part 5, Subparts A,E and F. Program information also available from              
  Community Connections at HUD at 1-800-998-9999.                                  
Regional or Local Office:                                                          
  Designated contact person or monitor for the Section 8 SRO Program in the        
  HUD Field Offices with a Community Planning and Development Division (see        
  Appendix IV of the Catalog for a listing of HUD Field Offices).                  
                                                                                   
Headquarters Office:

  Robyn Raysor, Office of Special Needs Assistance Programs, Community             
  Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development,           
  Room 7266, 451 7th Street, S.W., Washington, DC 20410. Telephone: (202)          
                                                                                   


                                                                              11-08
  708-4300. Use the same number for FTS. E-mail: Robyn.S.Raysor@hud.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/cpd/homeless/programs/sro/index.cfm and
  http://www.hudhre.info. The hudhre website provides additional detailed
  instructions on eligibility and process.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  14.238, Shelter Plus Care.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The criteria for selecting proposals will be listed under each Notice of Fund
  Availability.
14.250 RURAL HOUSING AND ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  COMMUNITY PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT, DEPARTMENT OF
  HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Law 105-276 - October 21, 1998.
OBJECTIVES:
  To build capacity at the State and local level for rural housing and economic
  development and to support innovative housing and economic development
  activities in rural areas.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grants can be used to support innovative housing and economic development
  activities for this program. More specific information is provided in the Notice
  of Funding Availability (NOFA).
Applicant Eligibility:
  Local rural nonprofit organizations, community development corporations,
  Federally recognized Indian Tribes, State Housing Financing Agencies and
  State Community and/or Economic Development Agencies.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Local and rural communities.
Credentials/Documentation:
  As required by the NOFA.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  The Federal Register NOFA will detail each competition's submission
  requirements and the competitive funding.
Award Procedure:
  Competition is required for grants. Awards to applicants securing the highest
  scores in relation to the selecting factors outlined in the NOFA.
Deadlines:
  The NOFA will contain deadlines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  September 1, 2008.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  For a period of 36 months.
Reports:
  Semi-Annual narrative and statistical reports are required.
Audits:
  In accordance with provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June 27,
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations,
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal Awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less that $500,000 a year in Federal awards
  are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in
  Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Each recipient must maintain records to facilitate audits of funds, disposition of
  proceeds, costs from all sources, in-kind/cash contributions and information on
  housing, and other facilities connected with the use of the funds.
Account Identification:
  86-0324-0-1-604.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $16,830,000; FY 08 est $17,000,000; and FY 09 est $0. (Note: Amounts
  reported reflect allocation of new budget authority rather than obligation
  amounts).
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Maximum award amount is $300,000.
                                                                                   337
