  development assistance, predevelopment assistance, or other financial assistance 
  to CDCs and CHDOs to carry out community development and affordable              
  housing activities that benefit low-income families and persons; and (3) Such    
  other activities as may be determined by the grantees in consultation with the   
  Secretary or his designee.                                                       
Applicant Eligibility:                                                             
  Four organizations, as specified in the authorizing legislation and amendment,   
  are eligible: Living Cities/The National Community Development Initiative,       
  Enterprise Community Partners, Inc. (formerly The Enterprise Foundation),        
  Local Initiatives Support Corporation, and Habitat for Humanity International.   
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                           
  Community Development Corporations, Community Housing Development                
  Organizations, and other nonprofit community based organizations that develop    
  affordable housing and community development projects and programs.              
Credentials/Documentation:                                                         
  This program is subject to the provisions of 24 CFR Part 84 (Uniform             
  Administrative Requirements), OMB Circular A-122 (Cost Principles for

  Nonprofit Organizations), and OMB Circular A-133 (Audits of States, Local        
  Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations). After selection for funding but

  prior to award, applicants must submit financial and administrative information  
  and certifications to comply with applicable requirements. Applicants also must  
  submit a certification from an Independent Public Accountant or the cognizant    
  government auditor, stating that the applicant's financial management system     
  meets prescribed standards for fund control and accountability.                  
                                                                                   
Preapplication Coordination:

  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O.12372.                          
Application Procedure:                                                             
  Applications may be submitted in response to the annual publication of the       
  Capacity Building Notice of Funding Availability (NOFA) in the Federal           
  Register. The General Section of the SuperNOFA and the Capacity Building         
  NOFA detail the submission requirements. There is no application kit.            
Award Procedure:                                                                   
  Based upon the requirements published in the Federal Register SuperNOFA,         
  respondents are notified of acceptance or rejection. Upon selection, the         
  applicant and HUD shall negotiate and execute a grant agreement.                 
                                                                                   
Deadlines:

  As indicated in the Federal Register NOFA publication.                           
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                
  From 60 to 90 days.                                                              
Appeals:                                                                           
  None.                                                                            
Renewals:                                                                          
  Not applicable.                                                                  
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                 
  Each dollar awarded must be matched by three (3) dollars in cash or in-kind      
  contributions obtained from private sources.                                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                             
  The performance period for the capacity building grants is 4 years. Funds must   
  be expended within 5 years of the grant start date.                              
Reports:                                                                           
  Grantees shall submit semiannual and annual performance and progress reports     
  and final closeout reports.                                                      
Audits:                                                                            
  Grantees and sub grantees shall be subject to the audit requirements contained in
  the Single Audit Act Amendments of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501-7507) and revised        
  OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-           
  Profit Organizations."                                                           
Records:                                                                           
  All records applicable to the program must be kept for three years following     
  closeout.                                                                        
Account Identification:                                                            
  86-0176-0-1-604.                                                                 
Obligations:                                                                       
  (Grants) FY 07 $29,590,000; FY 08 est $33,500,000; and FY 09 est $0.             
  (NOTE: Amounts reported reflect allocation of new budget authority rather than   
  obligation amounts.)                                                             
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                         
  For fiscal year 2007 there were two grant awards of $13,070,000.                 
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                           
  In FY 2007, the capacity building program demonstrated success in several areas  
  relating to increasing the organizational capacity of CDCs and CHDOs. Section    
  4 funds were used: (1) to renovate, preserve, or build 11,727 homes; (2) to      
  provide 326 trainings to CDCs and CHDOs; and (3) to leverage $1.87 billion in    
  total development costs of community development projects funded by CDCs         
  and CHDOs. The investment ratio of total project development costs to Section    
  4 funding was over 63:1.                                                         
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                           
  The statute and the Capacity Building for Affordable Housing and Community       
  Development NOFA constitute the regulations.                                     
Regional or Local Office:                                                          


                                                                              11-08
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Karen Daly, Office of Policy Development and Coordination, Community
  Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development,
  451 7th Street, SW, Washington, DC 20410. Telephone: (202) 402-5552. E-
  mail: karen.e.daly@hud.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/cpd/affordablehousing/index.cfm.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Applications are reviewed according to the rating factor requirements set forth in
  the Capacity Building for Affordable Housing and Community Development
  NOFA and SuperNOFA.
14.311 SINGLE FAMILY PROPERTY DISPOSITION
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF HOUSING, DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN
  DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORIZATION:
  National Housing Act, as amended, 12 U.S.C 1710, Sections 203(b), 203(k),
  204, 24 CFR 200.
OBJECTIVES:
  To sell the inventory of HUD-acquired properties in a manner that expands
  home ownership opportunities, strengthens neighborhoods and communities,
  and ensures a maximum return to the FHA mortgage insurance fund.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Sale, Exchange, or Donation of Property and Goods.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The Single Family Property Disposition Program is the marketing and sale of
  one to four unit properties acquired by HUD after foreclosure of an FHA-insured
  mortgage. Within the general program there are special disposition programs
  through which a portion of the property inventory is sold. These programs are
  referred to collectively as the Good Neighbor Initiatives and include Good
  Neighbor Next Door Sales program for law enforcement officer, pre-K through
  12 teachers and firefighters/emergency medical technicians, Discount Sales to
  Nonprofits and Local Governments program and $ HOME Sales to Local
  Governments program. Information for each of these programs is covered
  separately. The majority of foreclosed one to four unit properties are sold
  through the general disposition program. HUD contracts with private companies
  to manage and market the properties. Properties are listed for sale by each
  company for the company's contract area; generally, a state. The listings may be
  viewed by going directly to the contractor's website or visiting HUD's website at
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/sfh/reo/goodn/dhmabout.cfm, where you will be
  directed to the listings for your state. The listings provide the appraised value of
  the property, the property address, a brief description of the property and access
  to a Property Condition Report prepared by the contractor. Complete
  information explaining the sales process and earnest money requirements is also
  available. Bids must be submitted electronically by a real estate broker. An
  earnest money deposit is required with each bid submitted. Special opportunities
  are available for bidders who intend to occupy the purchased property as their
  personal residence. Properties not purchased during this Exclusive Listing
  Period are then available for the general public, including investors, during an
  Extended Listing Period. FHA financing may be available for purchasing many
  homes, including the FHA 203(k)and 203 Special (k) program providing a loan
  to purchase a property and pay for repairs or improvements as permitted by FHA
  rules. Interested persons should contact their FHA approved lender. Refer to
  http://www.hud.gov/ll/code/llplcrit.html for assistance in locating a lender.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Local Governments and Nonprofit Organizations: HUD contractors in the
  specific area should be contacted regarding eligibility requirements. Contact
  HUD at Tollfree: (800) CALLFHA or (800) 225-5342 for a listing of nationwide
  HUD contractors. FHA Insured Financing: Generally, anyone who has a
  satisfactory credit rating; enough cash to close the loan; sufficient, steady
  income to make the monthly payments without difficulty; and who will live in
  the home can be approved for an FHA insured mortgage. Income is only one of
  several factors that apply in the lending process. Interested buyers should
  contact their lender for more information.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Individual, governmental and organizational homebuyers.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Nonprofit Organizations must have IRS 501(c)(3) status.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372,
  Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs (or consultation with State and
  local governments regarding program design).
Application Procedure:
                                                                                    339
