14.314 ASSISTED LIVING CONVERSION FOR ELIGIBLE                                         
MULTIFAMILY HOUSING PROJECTS                                                           
                                                                                       
   (ALCP)                                                                              
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  OFFICE OF HOUSING, DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN                                   
  DEVELOPMENT                                                                          
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Section 202b of the Housing Act of 1959, as amended and the Consolidated             
  Appropriations Act, 2008 (Public Law 110-161; approved December 26, 2007).           
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To provide private nonprofit owners of eligible developments designated              
  primarily for occupancy by the elderly with a grant to allow the conversion of       
  some or all of the dwelling units in the project into Assisted Living Facilities     
  (ALFs) for the frail elderly, as defined in Section 232(B)(6) of the National        
  Housing Act and 202(k).                                                              
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Assisted living facilities (ALFs) are designed to accommodate frail elderly          
  persons and people with disabilities who can live independently but need             
  assistance with activities of daily living (that is, assistance with eating, bathing,
  grooming, dressing and home management activities.) ALFs must provide                
  support services such as personal care, transportation, meals, housekeeping, and     
  laundry. Typical funding will cover basic physical conversion of existing project    
  units, as well as related common and services space. The ALCP provides               
  funding for the physical costs of converting some or all of the units of an eligible 
  development into an ALF, including unit configuration, common and services           
  space and any necessary remodeling, consistent with HUD or the State's               
  statute/regulations (whichever is more stringent). There must be sufficient          
  community space to accommodate a central kitchen or dining facility, lounges,        
  recreation and other multiple-areas available to all residents of the project, or    
  office/staff spaces in the ALF. Funding for the supportive services must be          
  provided by the owners, either directly or through a third party.                    
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Only private nonprofit owners of eligible multifamily assisted housing               
  developments specified in Section 683(2)(B), (C), (D), (E), and (F) (Section 202     
  projects for the elderly, Rural Housing Section 515 projects receiving Section 8     
  rental assistance, projects receiving project-based rental assistance under Section  
  8, projects financed by a below-market interest rate loan or mortgage insured        
  under Section 221(d)(3) of the Housing Act, or housing financed under Section        
  236 of the National Housing Act) that have been in occupancy for at least five       
  years are eligible for funding. To be eligible, owners must meet the following       
  criteria: (1) Must be in compliance with Loan Agreement, Capital Advance             
  Agreement, Regulatory Agreement, Housing Assistance Payment Contract,                
  Project Rental Assistance Contract, Rent Supplement or LMSA Contract, or any         
  other HUD grant or contract document; (2) Must be in compliance with all fair        
  housing and civil rights laws, statutes, regulations, and executive orders as        
  enumerated in 24 CFR 5.105(a).                                                       
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Eligible residents who meet the admissions/discharge requirements as                 
  established for assisted living by State and local licensing, or HUD frailty         
  requirements under 24 CFR 891.205 if more stringent. The residents must be           
  able to live independently but may need assistance with activities of daily living   
  (that is, assistance with eating, bathing, grooming, dressing and home               
  management activities).                                                              
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  The assisted living facility must be licensed and regulated by the State (or if      
  there is no State law providing such licensing and regulation, by the                
  municipality or other subdivision in which the facility is located). The             
  application must include a firm commitment for the supportive services to be         
  offered at the ALF as part of the application. The Notice of Funding Availability    
  contains all the necessary information for applicants to apply for the grant.        
                                                                                       
Preapplication Coordination:

  Applicants must have contacted the State licensing agency for such a project to      
  determine if the proposed project will meet state licensing requirements. A          
  Supportive Service Plan (SSP) for the services and coordination of the               
                                                                                       
  supportive services which will be offered in the ALF must be developed and

                                                                                       
  submitted to the appropriate State or local organization. Applicants must

                                                                                       
  comply with all applicable statutory requirements and statutory requirements

                                                                                       
  under Section 232(b)(6) prior to application submission. This program is

                                                                                       
  eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372.

                                                                                       
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Applications are only accepted in response to the Notice of Funding Availability

  which is published in the Federal Register each fiscal year. Applicants

  responding to the NOFA should ensure that their application is complete before       
  submitting it to HUD. Applications must be submitted in accordance with              
  requirements of the NOFA. All applications received by the deadline will be          
  screened for curable deficiencies. After the completeness review, HUD reviews



                                                                                  11-08
  the application to determine whether it meets the threshold requirements. Only
  those applications that meet all of the threshold requirements will be eligible to
  receive an award. Applications submitted in response to the NOFA that are
  eligible, pass threshold and have a total score of 75 points (or more) are eligible
  for ranking and selection.
Award Procedure:
  Applications are reviewed and selected for funding within the funding allocation
  of the geographical Hub area. At the end of the technical review, all
  applications will be either rated or technically rejected. If an application meets
  all program eligibility requirements after completion of the technical review, it
  will be rated according to the rating selection factors. The number of points that
  an application receives will depend on the extent to which the application is
  responsive to the information requested in the selection criteria. The maximum
  number of points an application may receive under this program is 102.
Deadlines:
  Deadlines are specified in the NOFA. The application deadline is firm as to date
  and hour. In the interest of fairness to all competing applicants, the Department
  will treat as ineligible for consideration any application that is received after the
  deadline. Applicants should take this practice into account and make early
  submission of their materials to avoid risk of loss of eligibility brought about by
  any unanticipated or delivery-related problems. A FAX is not acceptable.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  A processing schedule is developed for each funding round. Applicants are
  provided with a decision by the end of the fiscal year (September 30th).
Appeals:
  An applicant will have fourteen (14) calendar days from the date of HUD's
  written notice to appeal a technical rejection. HUD will make a determination on
  an appeal before finalizing selection recommendations.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no matching requirements. However, owners are required to
  find the supportive services through other funding sources.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  None.
Reports:
  Any change in the owner during the period of the capital advance must be
  approved by HUD. Financial and performance reports are required every six
  months in accordance with instructions outlined in the Grant Agreement.
Audits:
  HUD reserves the right to audit the accounts of the owner in order to determine
  compliance and conformance with HUD regulations and standards.
Records:
  Regular financial reports are required. Owners must service and maintain
  records in accordance with acceptable HUD and State requirements and
  regulations as outlined in the grant agreement.
Account Identification:
  86-0320-0-1-604.
Obligations:
  Reported under program 14.157.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  In FY 2007, funded applications range from $1,315,303 to $4,276,091 with an
  average of $2,777,911.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Funded 218 units in FY 2005; 64 units in FY 2006; and 197 units in FY 2007.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Section 202(b) of the Housing Act of 1959, Assisted Living Conversion
  Program Notice of Funding Availability published May 12, 2008.
Regional or Local Office:
  Persons are encouraged to communicate with the nearest local HUD Multifamily
  Hubs and Program Centers listed at http://www.hud.gov/localoffices.cfm or at
  the Catalog Address Appendix IV.
Headquarters Office:
  Office of Grant Policy and Management, Department of Housing and Urban
  Development, Room 6138, 451 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 204l0.
  Telephone: (202) 708-3000.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/mfh/progdesc/alcp.cfm.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  14.157, Supportive Housing for the Elderly; 14.191, Multifamily Housing
  Service Coordinators.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Criteria for selecting proposals are in the NOFA.
14.315 EMERGENCY CAPITAL REPAIR GRANTS FOR
MULTIFAMILY HOUSING PROJECTS DESIGNATED FOR
OCCUPANCY
                                                                                      341
