      (ECRP)                                                                         
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  OFFICE OF HOUSING, DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN                                 
  DEVELOPMENT                                                                        
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Section 202b of Title II of the Housing Act of 1959, 12 U.S.C. 1701q-2 and         
  Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2008 (Public Law 110-161).                        
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To provide private nonprofit owners of eligible developments designated            
  primarily for occupancy by the elderly with grants to make emergency capital       
  repairs.                                                                           
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Emergency capital repair grants will be used to correct a situation that presents  
  an immediate threat to the life, health and safety of project tenants. Assistance  
  is limited to those projects with emergency problems that are of such a            
  magnitude that the problem poses an immediate threat to the quality of life of     
  the tenants and the continuation of the existing problem could potentially result  
  in an evacuation of the tenants or long-term tenant displacement unless the        
  repairs are made. The maximum amount an owner may apply for is $500,000.           
  The grant, along with funds from other sources, must remove the emergency          
  condition(s).                                                                      
                                                                                     
Applicant Eligibility:

  Only private nonprofit owners of eligible multifamily assisted housing             
  developments designated for occupancy by elderly tenants, as specified in          
  Section 683(2)(B), (C), (D), (E), and (F, or G of the Housing and Community        
  Development Act of 1992 (Public Law 102-550, approved October 28, 1992)            
  and are identified as: Section 202 direct loan projects with or without Section 8  
  rental assistance; Section 202 capital advance projects receiving rental           
                                                                                     
  assistance under their Project Rental Assistance Contract (PRAC); Section 515

                                                                                     
  rural housing projects receiving project-based rental assistance; projects

                                                                                     
  subsidized with Section 221(d)(3) below-market interest mortgage, projects

                                                                                     
  assisted under Section 236 of the National Housing Act; and other projects

                                                                                     
  receiving Section 8 project-based rental assistance. To be eligible, owners must

                                                                                     
  meet the following criteria: (1) Must be in compliance with Loan Agreement,

                                                                                     
  Capital Advance Agreement, Regulatory Agreement, Housing Assistance

                                                                                     
  Payment Contract, Project Rental Assistance Contract, Rent Supplement or

                                                                                     
  LMSA Contract, or any other HUD grant or contract document; (2) Must be in

                                                                                     
  compliance with all fair housing and civil rights laws, statutes, regulations, and 
  executive orders enumerated in 24 CFR 5.105(a)as applicable. The eligible          
  projects must have had closing on or before January 1, 1999.                       
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Residents of assisted housing projects designated for occupancy by elderly         
  tenants.

Credentials/Documentation:

  Applicants are provided all necessary information to apply for the grants in the   
  published Federal Register notice.                                                 
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  Applicants must comply with all applicable statutory requirements prior to         
  application submission. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O.          
  12372.                                                                             
Application Procedure:                                                               
  A notice is published in the Federal Register each year announcing the             
  availability of funds to potential applicants. Applicants will submit a complete   
  application, in accordance with requirements of the notice published in the        
  Federal Register. HUD staff will review each application to determine whether      
  the application meets the requirements of the notice. At the end of the review,    
  all applications will be either recommended for funding or rejected. If an         
  application meets all program eligibility requirements after completion of the     
  review, the local Multifamily HUB Director will forward a recommendation for       
  funding to HUD Headquarters.                                                       
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  HUD Headquarters will award the funds, if approved, in accordance with the         
  funding queue established by the date and time of receipt of the applications in   
  Grants.gov until the exhaustion of funds.                                          
Deadlines:                                                                           
  There is no application deadline date. Applications are received in Grants.gov,    
  processed in the Field Offices and funded in Headquarters on an as submitted       
  basis.                                                                             
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  The Field Offices will have 15 working days from the date and time of receipt of   
  the application to review the application, forward to the Hub and have the         
  Multifamily HUB Director provide a recommendation for approval/disapproval         
  of the funding request to Headquarters.                                            
Appeals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                              


342                                                                            11-08

Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no formula or matching requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  None.
Reports:
  Financial and performance reports as specified in the ECRP Grant Agreement.
Audits:
  HUD reserves the right to audit the accounts of the owner in order to determine
  compliance and conformance with HUD regulations and standards.
Records:
  Regular progress and financial reports are required. Owners must service and
  maintain records in accordance with acceptable HUD and State requirements
  and regulations.
Account Identification:
  86-0320-0-1-604.
Obligations:
  Reported under program 14.157.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $2,333 to $500,000; $235,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Funded 53 projects in FY 2007.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  The Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2008 (Public Law 110-161)provides
  funding for grants under section 202b of the Housing Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C.
  1701q-2) for conversion of eligible projects to assisted living and for emergency
  capital repairs as determined by the Secretary of HUD.
Regional or Local Office:
  Persons are encouraged to communicate with the nearest local HUD Multifamily
  Hub and/or Program Center listed at
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/mfh/mfbroch/hubs_pcs.cfm.
Headquarters Office:
  G. DeWayne Kimbrough, Director, Grant and Housing Assistance Field Support
  Division, Office of Multifamily Housing, Room 6146, Department of Housing
  and Urban Development, 451 Seventh Street, S.W., Washington, DC 20410;
  Telephone: (202) 708-3000.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/mfh/progdesc/ecrp.cfm.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  14.157, Supportive Housing for the Elderly; 14.314, Assisted Living Conversion
  for Eligible Multifamily Housing Projects.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Essex Manor, Saginaw, MI; Exchange Sunshine Home, Copperas, TX; and
  Kivel Manor, Phoenix, AZ.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Criteria for selecting proposals are listed in the published Federal Register
  notice.
14.316 HOUSING COUNSELING TRAINING PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  HOUSING, DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORIZATION:
  Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968, as amended.
OBJECTIVES:
  This program supports, under cooperative agreements with HUD, the delivery of
  a broad array of training activities for counselors from agencies participating in
  HUD's Housing Counseling program. The primary objectives of the program are
  to improve and standardize the quality of counseling provided by housing
  counselors working with HUD-approved housing counseling agencies and to
  make training accessible and affordable.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  To annually provide one or more housing counseling training grants to qualified
  organizations. The grant will fund the training of counselors of agencies
  participating in HUD's Housing Counseling program.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Applicants must be public or private nonprofit organizations with a least two
  years of experience providing housing counseling training services nationwide.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Housing Counselors from HUD-approved housing counseling agencies.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Each applicant is required to submit, for itself and for any organization with
  which it is partnering for the purpose of this NOFA, a legible copy of the
  document that supports the applicant's claim to be a nonprofit organization (for
  example, a 501(c) letter issued by the IRS). The documentation must contain
  the official name, address, and telephone number of the legal authority that
  granted the nonprofit status. Branches or affiliates of the applicant that are part
  of the proposed work plan must also be nonprofit entities.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The availability of funds (HUD SuperNOFA) is announced in the Federal
