  Register. For a copy of the SuperNOFA, or for the satellite broadcast schedule, 
  applicants can visit the HUD website (www.hud.gov). Persons with hearing or     
  speech impairments may call the Center's TTY number at (1-800) HUD-2209.        
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                        
Application Procedure:                                                            
  Applicants must submit by the required date the items and forms requested in    
  the SuperNOFA, such as a description of the housing counseling training

  services to be provided, and indicators by which benefits impact will be        
  measured.

Award Procedure:                                                                  
  Applicants will be evaluated competitively and ranked against all other

  applicants that applied in the same funding category. A funding formula         
  outlined in the SuperNOFA is used to calculate awards. This program is subject  
  to the administrative requirements established in OMB Circular A-102, Grants    
  and Cooperative Agreements with State and Local Governments, which was          
  implemented by 24 CFR Part 85; OMB Circular A-110, Uniform Administrative       
  Requirements for Grants and Other Agreements with Institutions of Higher        
  Education, Hospitals and Other Nonprofit Organizations, which was               
  implemented by 24 CFR Part 84; and OMB Circular A-133, Audits of States,        
  Local Governments and Nonprofit Organizations, which was implemented by 24      
  CFR Parts 84 and 85. Grants awarded under this program are also subject to the  
  cost principles in OMB Circular A-87 for state and local governments and        
  Indian tribal governments and OMB Circular A-122 for nonprofit organizations.   
                                                                                  
Deadlines:

  Due dates and times for the receipt of applications for housing counseling      
  training grants are specified in the application.                               
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                               
  Award announcements typically occur 5-7 months after applications are           
  received.                                                                       
Appeals:                                                                          
  Applicants for housing counseling training grants may appeal their denial of a  
  grant award or the insufficiency of the grant amount to HUD.                    
Renewals:                                                                         
  Grantees must submit a new application and compete through the SuperNOFA        
  each year.                                                                      
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                
  Formula is outlined in the SuperNOFA. This program has no matching              
  requirements. However, applicants are required to demonstrate funding from      
  other resources.                                                                
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                            
  Funding assistance is for a discrete period of time, generally 1 year. Grantees 
  invoice HUD on a periodic basis for housing counseling training services        
  delivered. Payments of grant funds are subsequently made to grantees via direct 
  deposit/electronic funds transfer (DD/EFT).                                     
Reports:                                                                          
  Grantees must submit quarterly progress reports and periodic invoices as well as
  final reports pursuant to the cooperative agreement.                            
Audits:                                                                           
  Awardees shall comply with the audit requirements of the Single Audit Act (31   
  U.S.C. 7501-07) and OMB Circular A-133, Audits of States, Local                 
  Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations (Revised June 24, 1997), as they       
  may be amended from time to time.                                               
Records:                                                                          
  As required in the grant cooperative agreement.                                 
Account Identification:                                                           
  86-0205-0-1-604.                                                                
Obligations:                                                                      
  FY 07 est $3,000,000; FY 08 est $3,000,000; and FY 09 est 3,000,000.            
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                        
  HUD typically makes a small number of awards that range in size from            
  $400,000 to $2.6 million.                                                       
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                          
  For fiscal year 2007, approximately 2,600 housing counselors have been trained  
  through the program.                                                            
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                          
  No housing counseling training regulations have been issued.                    
Regional or Local Office:                                                         
  None.                                                                           
Headquarters Office:                                                              
  Persons are encouraged to contact HQs Program Support Division, Office of       
  Insured Single Family Housing, Department of Housing and Urban                  
  Development, 451 7th Street, S.W., Washington, DC 20410. Telephone: (202)       
                                                                                  
  708-0317.

                                                                                  
Web Site Address:

                                                                                  
  Persons are encouraged to contact HQs Program Support Division, Office of

                                                                                  
  Insured Single Family Housing, Department of Housing and Urban

                                                                                  
  Development, 451 7th Street, S.W., Washington, DC 20410. Telephone: (202)       
  708-0317.                                                                       
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                 
  14.169, Housing Counseling Assistance Program.                                  


                                                                             11-08
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation/dba/NeighborWorks Housing
  counseling training award in the amount of $2,600,026. Date of Award: October
  4, 2007.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Outlined in the NOFA.
14.400 EQUAL OPPORTUNITY IN HOUSING
   (Fair Housing)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF FAIR HOUSING AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY, DEPARTMENT
  OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORIZATION:
  Fair Housing Act, 42 U.S.C. 3600 et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide fair housing throughout the United States and an administrative
  enforcement system which is subject to judicial review.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Investigation of Complaints.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  With limited exceptions, no housing offered commercially for sale or rental, may
  be advertised, sold, leased out, financed or appraised in a manner which
  discriminates on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability
  or familial status (the presence of children under the age of 18 in a household or
  a pregnant woman). In addition, housing providers and others must allow
  reasonable modifications to units and provide reasonable accommodations when
  these are necessary to allow a person with a disability full housing rights.
  Finally, multi-family housing built for occupancy after March 13, 1991, must
  comply with the Accessibility Guidelines established. Complaints of
  discrimination are investigated and conciliated. When conciliation is
  unsuccessful and where investigation indicates reasonable cause to believe that
  discrimination occurred or is about to occur, complainants may pursue their
  complaints before an Administrative law judge or in Federal district court (The
  Department of Justice litigates on behalf of complainants in federal district
  court, or HUD litigates on their behalf in the administrative forum). Also
  conferences and training sessions are held to explain rights and responsibilities
  under the law to attorneys, developers, the real estate industry and the general
  public.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Any aggrieved person, or the Assistant Secretary, may file a complaint based on
  an alleged discriminatory housing practice because of race, color, religion, sex,
  familial status, disability, or national origin. The complaint may be filed with the
  Department of Housing and Urban Development or a State or local fair housing
  agency with processes, procedures and remedies substantially equivalent to those
  of the Department, and which the Department has approved.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  None.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Not applicable.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Complaints may be sent to any HUD Field Office, or to HUD's Washington, DC
  Headquarters.
Award Procedure:
  None.
Deadlines:
  An administrative complaint must be filed with HUD within one year of the
  alleged discriminatory act.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Not applicable.
Appeals:
  Depends upon result of complaint processing.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  None.
Reports:
  None.
Audits:
  None.
Records:
  None.
Account Identification:
  86-0143-0-1-999.
Obligations:
  (Salaries and expenses) Not separately identifiable.
                                                                                     343
