  services or products for compensation to any person or organization which has     
  been the subject of testing by the applicant for a 12-month period following a    
  test. Also, their testing methodology must be approved by HUD before being        
  implemented.                                                                      
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  Not applicable. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.          
Application Procedure:                                                              
  Applications must be submitted in accordance with requirements and forms          
  provided in the Notice of Funding Availability as published in the Federal        
  Register. State and local government applicants must use the standard forms as    
  furnished by the Federal agency and required by OMB Circular No. A-102.           
  Nonprofit entities and institutions of higher education must use standard forms   
  as furnished by the Federal agency and required by OMB Circular No. A-110.        
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  Applications will be evaluated competitively and awarded points based on the      
  Selection Criteria included in the published Notice of Funding Availability. The  
  final decision rests with the Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal      
  Opportunity or her/his designee.                                                  
Deadlines:                                                                          
  Contact the appropriate office identified in the Notices of Funding Availability  
  within the time frames specified in the Notices.                                  
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  Two to six months.                                                                
Appeals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                             
Renewals:

  None.

Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  None.                                                                             
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

                                                                                    
  Funding is in accordance with requirements and forms provided in the Notice of

  Funding Availability with project periods generally ranging from 12 to 36

                                                                                    
  months. Assistance provided quarterly or as specified in the grant agreement.

                                                                                    
Reports:

                                                                                    
  Quarterly progress reports will be required. Additionally, State and local

                                                                                    
  governments must submit all reports required pursuant to OMB Circulars A-102

                                                                                    
  and A-133. Educational institutions and private nonprofit organizations must

                                                                                    
  submit all reports required pursuant to OMB Circulars A-110 and A-133, and        
  reporting under Form HUD 96010.                                                   
Audits:                                                                             
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June

                                                                                    
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"

                                                                                    
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in

                                                                                    
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that

                                                                                    
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal        
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted  
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                            
Records:                                                                            
  None.                                                                             
Account Identification:                                                             
  86-0144-0-1-751.

                                                                                    
Obligations:

                                                                                    
  FY 07 $19,800,000; FY 08 est $24,000,000; and FY 09 est $26,000,000.

                                                                                    
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

  Not applicable.                                                                   
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  FHIP funds are used to increase compliance with the Fair Housing Act and with     
  substantially equivalent fair housing laws. HUD has awarded grants to             
  affirmatively further fair housing in the amounts indicated above. Grants were    
  competitively awarded to emphasize enforcement and education and outreach         
  activities based on the protected bases including race, color, religion, sex,     
  disability, familial status and national origin. For FY 2007 approximately 88     
  grants were awarded. Enforcement related grants were given to assist private, tax 
  exempt fair housing enforcement organizations in the investigation and            
  enforcement of alleged violations of the Act and substantially equivalent State   
  and local fair housing laws. Education and outreach grants were given to assist   
  projects that inform the public about their rights and obligations under the Act  
  and substantially equivalent State and local fair housing laws. HUD estimates     
  that 88 competive grants will be awarded in Fiscal Year 2008.                     
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  24 CFR Part 125, Fair Housing Initiatives Program.                                
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  HUD Field Office Fair Housing Enforcement Center or Program Operations and        
  Compliance Center: Director, Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity in the            
  appropriate HUD Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.                      
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Myron Newry, Director, FHIP Division, Office of Fair Housing and Equal            
  Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 7th Street,         
  S.W., Room 5224, Washington, DC 20410. Telephone: (202) 402-7095 E-mail:          
  Myron.P.Newry@hud.gov.                                                            
                                                                                    


348                                                                           11-08

Web Site Address:
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/fheo/partners/FHIP/fhip.cfm.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  14.401, Fair Housing Assistance Program_State and Local; 14.402, Non-
  Discrimination in Federally-Assisted Programs (On the Basis of Age); 14.412,
  Employment Opportunities for Lower Income Persons and Businesses.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  The types of projects funded included activities for discovering and providing
  remedies for fair housing discrimination; conducting investigations of housing
  discrimination, including systemic discrimination; conducting testing or other
  investigative support for administrative and judicial enforcement of fair housing
  laws; and linking fair housing organizations regionally in enforcement activities.
  Additional projects funded included activities for establishing new fair housing
  enforcement organizations; discovering and providing remedies for fair housing
  discrimination; conducting investigations of housing discrimination; and
  building the capacity of existing organizations to provide fair housing
  enforcement. Other projects included activities providing fair housing
  information to the public through public service announcements, advertisements,
  posters and brochures; providing fair housing counseling services; and
  developing fair housing training for educational institutions and members of the
  housing industry on fair housing rights and responsibilities.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The selection criteria that will be considered in reviewing applications will be
  included in the Notices of Funding Availability, as published in the Federal
  Register.
14.412 EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES FOR LOWER
INCOME PERSONS AND BUSINESSES
   (Section 3)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF FAIR HOUSING AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY, DEPARTMENT
  OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORIZATION:
  Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968, Section 3, 12 U.S.C. 1701u.
OBJECTIVES:
  Section 3 of the HUD Act of 1968 requires that employment and other economic
  opportunities generated by certain HUD financial assistance shall, to the greatest
  extent feasible, be directed to low-and very low-income persons, particularly
  those who are recipients of government assistance for housing, and to business
  concerns which provide economic opportunities to low-and very low-income
  persons.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Investigation of Complaints.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Section 3 applies to training, employment, contracting and other economic
  opportunities arising from the expenditure of public and Indian housing
  development, operating and modernization assistance; and to training,
  employment and other economic opportunities arising in connection with the
  expenditure of housing and community development assistance that is used for
  housing rehabilitation (including reduction and abatement of lead-based paint
  hazards), housing construction and other public construction. Section 3 also
  applies to financial assistance in the form of insurance or guaranty or to tenant-
  based assistance.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Public and Indian Housing Programs: (1) Training and employment
  opportunities --(i) public housing residents; or (ii) an individual who resides in
  the metropolitan area or non-metropolitan county in which the Section 3 covered
  assistance is expended, and who is a low- or very low-income person. (2)
  Contract opportunities -- (i) business concerns that are 51 percent or more
  owned by residents of the housing development or developments for which the
  Section 3 covered assistance is expended, or who's full-time, permanent
  workforce includes 30 percent of these persons as employees; or (ii) business
  concerns that are 51 percent or more owned by residents of other housing
  developments or developments managed by the housing authority that is
  expending the Section 3 covered assistance or whose full-time permanent
  workforce includes 30 percent of these persons as employees; or (iii) HUD
  Youth build programs being carried out in the metropolitan area in which the
  Section 3 covered assistance is expended; or (iv) business concerns that are 51
  percent or more owned by Section 3 residents, or whose permanent, full-time
  workforce includes no less than 30 percent Section 3 residents or that
  subcontract in excess of 25 percent of the total amount of subcontracts to
  business concerns identified in (i) and (ii) above. Housing and Community
  Development Programs: (1) training and employment opportunities -- (i) Section
  residents residing in the service area or neighborhood in which the Section 3
  covered project is located; (ii) participants in HUD Youthbuild programs; (iii)
  homeless persons residing in the service area or neighborhood in which the
  Section 3 covered project is located; and (iv) other Section 3 residents. (2)
  Contract opportunities: -- (i) Section 3 business concerns that provide economic
