  submit a separate application as long as they have a separate administrative       
  structure and budget.

Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  The principal beneficiaries of the program include any city, county, town,         
  parish, village, any other political subdivision of a State within which an ANI or 
  NHI is located.                                                                    
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Grants are governed by (1) OMB Circular No. A-21 "Cost Principles for              
  Educational Institutions; (2) OMB Circular No. A-133 "Audits of States, Local      
  Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations; and (3) provisions of 24 CFR part       
  84 "Grant Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals and          
                                                                                     
  Non-Profit Organizations".

                                                                                     
Preapplication Coordination:

                                                                                     
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.

                                                                                     
Application Procedure:

  Applicants will respond to competitive requirements contained in a Notice of       
  Funding Availability (NOFA) published in the Federal Register.                     
                                                                                     
Award Procedure:

  Applications will be reviewed against published criteria, rated and ranked, and    
  awards made to the highest ranking applications. HUD reserves the right to         
  make selections out of order to provide geographic distribution of grantees.       
  HUD also reserves the right to reduce the amount of funding requested in order     
  to fund as many highly ranked applications as possible.                            
                                                                                     
Deadlines:

  Deadlines will be announced in each NOFA publication.                              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Announcement of awards are anticipated on or before September 30th.                
Appeals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  None. Applicants get points in the selection system for securing leveraged         
  funds.                                                                             
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  HUD may make grants for up to 3 years.                                             
Reports:                                                                             
  Quarterly progress and financial progress reports, as well as Program Logic        
  Model and a final program report and Program Logic Model are required.             
Audits:                                                                              
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised June 27,          
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"         
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in        
  Federal awards will have a single or program-specific audit conducted for that     
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal         
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted   
  in Circular A-133.                                                                 
Records:                                                                             
  Records must be kept in accordance with the terms and conditions of the grant.     
Account Identification:                                                              
  86-0162-0-1-451, 86-0108-0-1-451.                                                  
Obligations:                                                                         
  Grants) FY 07 $2,970,000; FY 08 est $3,000,000; and FY 09 est $1,977,000.          
  (NOTE: Amounts reported reflect allocation of new budget authority rather than     
  obligation amounts.)                                                               
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  For Alaska Native Institutions of higher education and Native Hawaiian             
  Institutions of higher education, $800,000 per grantee.                            
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  Since 2001 36 grants have been awarded under this program. It is anticipated       
  that up to four more applicants will receive funding in FY 08.                     
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  The program is governed by regulations contained in 24 CFR 570.400 and             
  570.404 and 24 CFR Part 570, subparts A, C, J, K and O. Provisions of 24 CFR       
  part 84 "Grant Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and    
  Nonprofit Organizations."                                                          
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  For answers to technical questions, Sherone Ivey, in the Office of University      
  Partnerships, Office of Policy Development and Research HUD, 451 7th Street,       
  S.W., Washington, DC 20410. Telephone: (202) 402-4200. Fax: (202) 708-             
  0309. E-mail: Sherone.Ivey@hud.gov .                                               
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.oup.org ; or www.hud.gov/grants .                                       
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  None.                                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  None.                                                                              
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Refer to the criteria listed in each NOFA.                                         


352                                                                            11-08

14.516 DOCTORAL DISSERTATION RESEARCH GRANTS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF POLICY DEVELOPMENT AND RESEARCH, DEPARTMENT
  OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORIZATION:
  Continuing Appropriations Resolution Act, 2008 (Public Law 110-161).
OBJECTIVES:
  To assist Ph.D. candidates in completing their research and dissertations on
  housing and urban development issues.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Costs incurred in the timely completion of a dissertation including stipends,
  computer software, the purchase of data, travel expenses to collect data,
  transcription services, and compensation for interviews. Grants cannot be used
  for tuition, computer hardware, or meals. Indirect cost and honorariums cannot
  be charged under this program.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Applicants must be accredited institutions of higher education recognized by the
  Department of Education that sponsor doctoral students who are currently
  enrolled and matriculating and have been accepted into candidacy in an
  accredited doctoral program. However, the sponsored doctoral student is
  responsible for the completion of the application (with the assistance of the
  institution).
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Beneficiaries are doctoral students.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Doctoral students must meet the following requirements: (1) Be a U.S. citizen or
  lawful permanent resident (recipient of an Alien Registration Recipient Card-
  Form I-551,commonly referred to as a Green Card) currently enrolled in an
  accredited doctoral program; (2) Have an approved dissertation proposal; (3)
  Provide documentation from the dissertation committee chairs that states the
  feasibility of the following: (a) By the application due date, the student's
  dissertation will be accepted by the full dissertation committee (b)The student
  will have an assigned dissertation advisor; (c) by September of the application
  year, the student will have satisfactorily completed all other written and oral
  Ph.D. requirements, including all examinations and defense of the proposal,
  except the dissertation; and(d) The proposed dissertation can be completed
  within the 2-year grant period.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372 and OMB Circular
  No. A-102.
Application Procedure:
  Application requirements will appear in a Federal Register Notice of Funding
  Availability (NOFA). This program is excluded from coverage under OMB
  Circular No. A-110.
Award Procedure:
  Applicants will respond to competitive requirements contained in a NOFA
  published in the Federal Register each year.
Deadlines:
  Deadlines will be announced in each NOFA publication.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Announcement of awards are anticipated on or before September 30th.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Applicant's institution is required to provide support to the applicant during the
  grant period.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  This grant is for a 2-year period.
Reports:
  Applicants must submit a report on progress halfway through the grant period
  and a Program Logic Model. At the end of the grant performance period the
  doctoral student must submit to HUD two copies and a CD-Rom of the approved
  manuscript in its final version and a final complete Program Outcome Logic
  Model.
Audits:
  None.
Records:
  The institution must maintain information on grant disbursement.
Account Identification:
  86-0108-0-1-451.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $295,783; FY 08 est $300,000; and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Maximum grant size is $25,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Program helps approximately 12 Ph.D. candidates a year complete their
