Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State,

  local, and Indian tribal governments.                                             
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  No preapplication required. Prior to submitting application, applicant must allow 
  for citizen participation in application development. An environmental            
  assessment is required for this program. This program is excluded from            
  coverage under E.O. 12372.                                                        
Application Procedure:                                                              
  Applicants must file an application on forms prescribed by HUD, which             
  describe the community development need and how that need will be addressed       
  by the proposed project. The application must provide sufficient information for  
  the project to be rated against selection criteria.                               
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  The Office of Native American Programs (ONAP) Area Office is responsible for      
  rating and approving applications and for notifying applicants of the results.    
Deadlines:                                                                          
  Dates are published in a Notice of Funding Availability (NOFA) in the Federal     
  Register.                                                                         
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  From 75 to 110 days.                                                              
Appeals:                                                                            
  Limitations, conditions, and requirements specified in NOFA.                      
Renewals:                                                                           
  None.                                                                             
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  None.                                                                             
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  Assistance is available until project completion, usually within two years.       
Reports:                                                                            
  Annual performance reports.                                                       
Audits:                                                                             
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, (Revised, June       
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit                   
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000  
  or more in Federal Awards will have a single or a program-specific audit          
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a     
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for the year,   
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.                                            
Records:                                                                            
  All records applicable to the assistance project must be kept for three to five   
  years following the submission of the final expenditure report or until all audit 
  findings have been resolved.                                                      
Account Identification:                                                             
  86-0162-0-1-451.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  (Grants) FY 07 $61,796,147; FY 08 est $62,000,000; and FY 09 est                  
  $57,420,000.                                                                      
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  The estimated average grant in Fiscal Year 2003 (latest year data provided) was

                                                                                    
  approximately $600,000. The smallest and largest awards were $177,274 and

                                                                                    
  $4,950,947, respectively.                                                         
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  None.

                                                                                    
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

                                                                                    
  24 CFR 1003.

                                                                                    
Regional or Local Office:

  Contact appropriate HUD Office of Native American Programs (ONAP) Area            
  Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.                                      
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Office of Native American Programs, Department of Housing and Urban               
  Development,451 Seventh St, S.W., Room 4126, Washington, DC 20410.                
  Telephone: (202) 401-7914.                                                        
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/pih/ih/grants/icdbg.cfm.                               
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  14.867, Indian Housing Block Grants; 14.250, Rural Housing and Economic           
                                                                                    
  Development; 15.124, Indian Loans_Economic Development; 15.141, Indian

                                                                                    
  Housing Assistance; 93.612, Native American Programs.

                                                                                    
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

  Fire station; housing rehabilitation grant program; cooperative store             
                                                                                    
  development; water lines and storage facility, community building.

                                                                                    
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

                                                                                    
  Applications must be submitted by any eligible tribe or Alaska Native Village

                                                                                    
  which has the capacity to administer a grant. Applications are then rated against

                                                                                    
  factors which measure impact and quality.

                                                                                    
                                                                                    
14.865 PUBLIC AND INDIAN HOUSING-INDIAN LOAN                                        
GUARANTEE PROGRAM                                                                   
                                                                                    


                                                                              11-08 
   (Loan Guarantees for Indian Housing)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  PUBLIC AND INDIAN HOUSING, OFFICE OF NATIVE AMERICAN
  PROGRAMS, DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN
  DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORIZATION:
  Housing and Community Development Act of 1992, as amended; Public Law
  102-550; 106 Stat. 3739; 12 U.S.C. 1515z-13a.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide homeownership opportunities to Native Americans, Tribes, Indian
  Housing Authorities including Tribally Designated Housing Entities (TDHEs),
  and Indian Housing Authorities on Indian land, through a guaranteed mortgage
  loan program available through private financial institutions.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Guaranteed/Insured Loans.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Mortgage loans are for the acquisition or rehabilitation of existing homes,
  purchase and rehabilitation of a home or construction of a new home; and
  refinancing of existing debt (FY 03). The financial institution which originates
  the mortgage loan must meet certain requirements noted in the law.
Applicant Eligibility:
  The loan applicant must be members of a federally recognized Indian tribe, band
  or community, which includes Native Americans, Alaska Natives, or an Indian
  Housing Authority including a Tribally Designated Housing Authority (TDHE)
  or a Tribe which meets certain requirements. Applicant eligibility is validated by
  current enrollment in a federally recognized tribe.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  The homeowner is the ultimate beneficiary of the program. When the Indian
  Housing Authority, TDHE or Tribe is the homebuyer, they may then rent the
  property. In these cases, the person renting the home would be an indirect
  beneficiary.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Loan applicants must provide the lender with documentation on eligibility,
  assets, income, debts and liabilities to show ability to obtain and repay the
  mortgage loan.
Preapplication Coordination:
  A Tribe must develop eviction, foreclosure, and priority of lien procedures and
  adopt a residential mortgage lease acceptable to HUD and the BIA for any
  property on trust land within their jurisdiction to be eligible for this program.
  The loan applicant must find an existing property or a builder to construct a
  home. The proposed home site must be in an Indian area as defined in the
  statute. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applications are submitted to eligible financial institutions. With the loan
  application, the homebuyer must submit documentation such as pay stubs, W-2
  forms (income tax returns if self-employed), evidence of assets such as bank
  accounts, and any other documentation requested by the lender to support the
  applicant's ability to obtain and repay the mortgage. The lender verifies the land
  status of the proposed property.
Award Procedure:
  The financial institution obtains and reviews all documentation and forwards it
  to HUD's Office of Native American Programs. HUD sends the Section 184
  Loan Guarantee Firm Commitment Form to the Lender, if the mortgage meets
  the Section 184 Program underwriting criteria. The financial institution is
  responsible for assuring Tribal eligibility, land status, property acceptability and
  the creditworthiness of the loan applicant. HUD has responsibility for the
  approval or disapproval of the loan (the application for loan guarantee). Eligible
  lenders may originate loans under the Direct Guarantee Program. Direct
  Guarantee lenders underwrite, approve and close the loan prior to submission to
  HUD for the Loan Guarantee Certificate.
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  There are no specific time requirements for the processing of these loans.
Appeals:
  Applicants whose loans are disapproved may appeal the disapproval if the
  applicant can provide additional documentation to resolve the issues which lead
  to the disapproval.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The loan amount is calculated based on 97.75 percent of the appraised value of
  the property if over $50,000 and 98.75 percent if the property is valued at or
  under $50,000. The applicant must have sufficient assets in cash (or their
  equivalent) to make the downpayment. The applicant's total debts (including the
  mortgage loan) should not exceed 41 percent of their income (unless valid
  compensating factors are presented).
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The term of the loan cannot exceed 30 years. The processing time varies from
                                                                                     357
