  and that it will, if approved, make the pledge of IHBG funds required by section    
  602(a)(2) of NAHASDA.                                                               
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  Applicant submits a request for a Preliminary Letter of Acceptance (PLA) to         
  HUD. The PLA is HUD's concurrence to proceed with the Title VI application.         
  The PLA is not an approval of the Title VI application or a commitment to           
  approve or guarantee the Title VI loan. This program is excluded from coverage      
  under E.O. 12372.                                                                   
Application Procedure:

  Eligible lenders are detailed in the statute. The lender assembles the Title VI

                                                                                      
  application package and submits it to HUD. HUD will review the application

  for compliance with Title VI of NAHASDA and the implementing regulations.           
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  HUD issues a Letter of Firm Commitment to the lender when HUD approves the

  Title VI application and the mortgage meets the Title VI Program underwriting       
  criteria. The lender then closes the loan and submits the closing package to        
  HUD for review. Following a successful review, HUD issues a Certificate of          
  Loan Guarantee to the lender.                                                       
Deadlines:                                                                            
  None.                                                                               
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  The Title VI regulation at 24 CFR 1000.430(a) states that HUD will make every       
  effort to approve an application within 30 days of the receipt of a completed       
  application, and if HUD is unable to do so, will notify the lender (the applicant   
  via the lender) within the 30 day time frame of the need for additional time to     
  process the application and/or if additional information is required.               
Appeals:                                                                              
  HUD will notify the lender in writing that the application has been reduced or      
  disapproved and the specific reasons for the reduction or the disapproval. The      
  lender may submit additional documentation to reverse the HUD decision.             
Renewals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Borrowers may be required to pledge security in addition to IHBG funds to           
  secure the remaining 5 percent of the loan balance that is not secured by the 95    
  percent federal loan guarantee.                                                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  The term of the loan may exceed 20 years, as approved by HUD. The lender and        
  applicant shall determine the terms of the repayment for each project, subject to   
  HUD's approval.                                                                     
Reports:                                                                              
  The lender will provide HUD a quarterly report on the guaranteed loan,              
  including the status of the guaranteed loan, the current principal balance, and the 
  amount collected during the quarter just ended.                                     
Audits:                                                                               
  Participating lenders and closed loan files are reviewed to assure compliance       
  with the program's requirements.                                                    
Records:                                                                              
  Copies of loan files are maintained by HUD. The originating lender must             
  maintain a copy of the loan file for 2 years after loan is guaranteed. The          
  servicing lender must maintain a loan file for the line of the loan plus 3 years.   
Account Identification:                                                               
  86-0313-0-1-604.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Loans guaranteed/commitment level) FY 07 $12,457,000; FY 08 est                    
  $17,000,000; and FY 09 est $17,000,000.                                             
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  A borrower's guaranteed obligations may not exceed an amount equal to the           
  borrower's IHBG, less the amount needed to operate and maintain current             
  assisted stock (CAS), times five (IHBG - CAS X 5 = maximum guaranteed               
  amount).                                                                            
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  Title VI is a permanent program under Title VI of the NAHASDA.                      
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  24 CFR Part 1000, subpart E; "The Title VI Application Process" and                 
  promotional literature are available from HUD's National Program Office of          
  Native American Programs, Office of Loan Guarantee; and the Title VI web            
  page (see the address below).                                                       
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  None (see Headquarters Office below).                                               
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Robert Lamp, Loan Guarantee Specialist, Office of Loan Guarantee,                   
  Department of Housing and Urban Development, Office of Native American              
  Programs, Room 4126, 451 Seventh Street, S.W., Washington, DC 20410.                
  Telephone: (202) 402-4134, (This is not a toll free number).                        
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/pih/ih/homeownership/titlevi/                            
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  14.865, Public and Indian Housing_Indian Loan Guarantee Program.                    
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          


360                                                                             11-08

  Development of single family and multiple-family housing projects or
  subdivisions; integration of infrastructure resources on tribal lands; purchase and
  renovation of a mobile home lot.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Title VI and Section 202 of NAHASDA; criteria is detailed in the "The Title VI
  Application Process" available from HUD's National Program Office, Office of
  Loan Guarantee, and on the Title VI web site
  (http://www.hud.gov/offices/pih/ih/homeownership/titlevi/).
14.870 RESIDENT OPPORTUNITY AND SUPPORTIVE
SERVICES - SERVICE COORDINATORS
   (ROSS Service Coordinators)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  PUBLIC AND INDIAN HOUSING, DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND
  URBAN DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORIZATION:
  Section 34 of the 1937 Act, 42 U.S.C 1437z-6, as amended by the The
  Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2008 (Public Law 110-161, approved
  December 26, 2007).
OBJECTIVES:
  To programmatically address the needs of public housing residents by providing
  service coordinator positions to coordinate supportive services, resident
  empowerment activities and/or assisting residents in becoming economically
  self-sufficient or age-in-place.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grant funds may be used for the salary of Service Coordinator positions, with
  some administrative and training funds.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Public Housing Authorities (PHAs), Tribes and tribally designated housing
  entities (TDHEs), resident councils and nonprofit entities supported by residents.
  Applicants must establish partnerships to leverage resources.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Individuals, families, children, youth, adults as well as elderly/persons with
  disabilities who are residents of conventional public or Indian housing are
  eligible to receive benefits from the ROSS program.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  A Notice of Funding Availability (NOFA) prescribing the specific information
  to be submitted will be published in the Federal Register by HUD Headquarters.
  HUD provides the application and standard forms for this program.
Award Procedure:
  HUD will review, applications in accordance with selection criteria in the NOFA
  published in the Federal Register.
Deadlines:
  The NOFA will announce the deadline for application submission.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Processing of applications and selection of successful applicants will be
  undertaken by HUD. HUD will make final selection and obligate funds.
Appeals:
  There is no appeals process. Applicants whose applications did not receive
  funding may request a debriefing. Further information is included in the NOFA.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  All applicants must present evidence of matching funds, as specified in the
  NOFA.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  HUD will provide assistance for a 3-year time period.
Reports:
  Grantees must keep records and make available semi-annual reports as specified
  by HUD.
Audits:
  Grantees must adhere to the policies, guidelines and requirements of 24 CFR
  Part 84 or 85 and OMB Circular No. A-87; and OMB Circular Nos. A-110 and
  A-122 apply to the acceptance and use of assistance by private nonprofit
  agencies.
Records:
  Records will be retained in accordance with the HUD regulation, 24 CFR Part
  84 or 85.
Account Identification:
  86-0304-0-1-604.
Obligations:
  FY 07 reported under 14.876; FY 08 est $40,000,000; and FY 09 est
