  center or expanding an existing center.                                            
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Only Public Housing Authorities may apply.                                         
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Residents of public housing are the only eligible beneficiaries.                   
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Applicants must provide evidence with their application submission that they are   
  eligible and qualified to run the grant program.                                   
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                     
Application Procedure:                                                               
  A Notice of Funding Availability (NOFA) is issued on an annual basis. The          
  NOFA outlines application procedures, application deadlines, and funding           
  available.                                                                         
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  HUD reviews all applications received for eligibility, threshold requirements,     
  and rating and ranking criteria. Once the review process is completed, award       
  notifications are sent to applicants.                                              
Deadlines:                                                                           
  The NOFA provides this information.                                                
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  The application review process can last a few months.                              
Appeals:                                                                             
  There is no appeals process. Applicants whose applications did not receive         
  funding may request a debriefing. Further information is included in the NOFA.     
Renewals:                                                                            
  Applicants may not renew an existing grant. However, applicants may apply          
  each year for new funding.                                                         
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Applicants are required to demonstrate a firmly committed 25 percent match of      
  cash or in-kind donations.                                                         
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  The grant lasts for a period of three years.                                       
Reports:                                                                             
  Grantees are required to submit semi-annual performance and financial reports      
  to their local HUD field offices.                                                  
Audits:                                                                              
  An audit at the end of the grant term may be required.                             
Records:                                                                             
  HUD field offices retain copies of grantees' performance and financial reporting   
  submissions. Grantees should retain all grant-related documentation for a period   
  of three years from the date of submission of the final expenditure report.        
Account Identification:                                                              
  86-0304-0-1-604.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  FY 07 $0; FY 08 est $0; and FY 09 est $0.                                          
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  Not applicable.                                                                    
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  Though there have been no Congressional appropriations for the Public Housing      
  Neighborhood Networks Program since FY 2006, in November, 2007, a NOFA             
  was made available for the last bit of roll-over funds available for this program. 
  Awards to be made by FY end 2008.                                                  
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  24 CFR Parts 85, 905, and 968; and the Neighborhood Networks NOFA.                 
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Ron Ashford, Director, HOPE VI Community and Supportive Services.                  
  Telephone: (202) 401-8812 x4258.                                                   
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  www.hud.gov/offices/pih/programs/ph/ross/aboutnn.cfm.                              
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  14.866, Demolition and Revitalization of Severely Distressed Public Housing;       
  14.870, Resident Opportunity and Supportive Services - Service Coordinators.       
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  None.                                                                              
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  The criteria for selecting proposals are announced in the NOFA.                    
                                                                                     
14.876 RESIDENT OPPORTUNITY AND SUPPORTIVE                                           
SERVICES - ELDERLY AND PERSONS WITH                                                  
                                                                                     
DISABILITIES                                                                         
      (ROSS Elderly and Persons with Disabilities)                                   
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  PUBLIC AND INDIAN HOUSING, DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND                               
  URBAN DEVELOPMENT                                                                  
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Section 34 of the 1937 Act (42 U.S.C 1437z-6), as amended by the FY 2007           


364                                                                            11-08

  HUD Appropriations Act.
OBJECTIVES:
  To programmatically address the needs of public housing residents by providing
  supportive services, resident empowerment activities and/or assisting residents
  in becoming economically self- sufficient. The primary focus of the program is
  on independent living and "aging in place."
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grant funds may be used for supportive services activities, including the
  employment of project coordinators and/or direct services staff.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Public Housing Authorities(PHAs), Tribes and tribally designated housing
  entities (TDHEs), resident councils and nonprofit entities supported by residents.
  Applicants must establish partnerships to leverage resources.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Elderly/persons with disabilities who are residents of conventional public or
  Indian housing are eligible to receive benefits from the ROSS program.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  A Notice of Funding Availability prescribing the specific information to be
  submitted will be published in the Federal Register by HUD Headquarters. HUD
  provides the application and standard forms for this program.
Award Procedure:
  HUD will review, rate and rank those applications in accordance with selection
  criteria in the NOFA published in the Federal Register. Awards will be made in
  rank order in each of the ten federal regions until all funds are expended.
Deadlines:
  The NOFA will announce the deadline for application submission.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Processing of applications and selection of successful applicants will be
  undertaken by HUD. HUD will make final selection and obligate funds.
Appeals:
  There is no appeals process. Applicants whose applications did not receive
  funding may request a debriefing. Further information is included in the NOFA.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  All applicants must present evidence of matching funds, as specified in the
  NOFA.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  HUD will provide assistance for a 3-year time period.
Reports:
  Grantees must keep records and make available semi-annual reports as specified
  by HUD.
Audits:
  Grantees must adhere to the policies, guidelines and requirements of 24 CFR
  Part 84 or 85 and OMB Circular No. A-87; and OMB Circular Nos. A-110 and
  A-122 apply to the acceptance and use of assistance by private nonprofit
  agencies.
Records:
  Records will be retained in accordance with the HUD regulation, 24 CFR Part
  84 or 85.
Account Identification:
  86-0304-0-1-604.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $50,000,000; FY 08 est reported under 14.870; and FY 09 est reported
  under 14.870.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Not applicable.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Approximately 300 grants are awarded annually for all ROSS programs. For FY
  08 and forward, ROSS Family and ROSS Elderly have been combined to ROSS
  Service Coordinators.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  HUD appropriation statutes and the specific fiscal year NOFA published in the
  Federal Register provide program requirements and guidelines.
Regional or Local Office:
  Designated persons in the Offices of Public Housing and Native American
  Programs listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.
Headquarters Office:
  Ron Ashford, Director, HOPE VI Community and Supportive Services,
  Telephone: (202) 401-8812 Ext. 4258.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.hud.gov/progdesc/pihindx.html.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  14.870, Resident Opportunity and Supportive Services - Service Coordinators;
  14.875, Public Housing Neighborhood Networks Grants; 14.877, Public
