  provided with guidance from HUD Headquarters and may ask questions of HUD           
  staff while preparing their applications. This program is eligible for coverage     
  under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An                
  applicant should consult the office or official designated as the single point of   
  contact in his or her State for more information on the process the State requires  
  to be followed in applying for assistance if the State has selected the program for 
  review.                                                                             
Application Procedure:                                                                
  A NOFA is published in the Federal Register announcing the availability of          
  funds and referring applicants to application materials available from              
  Grants.gov, at http://www.grants.gov. Applications must be submitted

  electronically to Grants.gov. Further information on registration into Grants.gov   
  can be obtained at HUD's http://www.hud.gov/grants website.

Award Procedure:                                                                      
  HUD Headquarters reviews each eligible application for threshold compliance,        
  assigns rating points to applications that pass all thresholds, and the highest-    
  rated applications are notified that they have been selected receive a Main Street  
  grant. Funds are obligated when HUD and the applicant execute a form HUD-           
  1044, "Assistance Award/Amendment."                                                 
Deadlines:                                                                            
  The deadline for submitting an application for Main Street is published in each     
  year's NOFA.                                                                        
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Approximately one month from the application deadline date.                         
Appeals:                                                                              
  Applicants are notified by HUD if an application is not approved.                   
Renewals:                                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Grantees must provide a 5 percent match from funding sources other than             
  Section 24 of the 1937 Housing Act, (the Main Street or HOPE VI Programs).          
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Grants have a term of 30 months. The applicant must include its program             
  schedule in the application.                                                        
Reports:                                                                              
  Quarterly Progress Report, Quarterly Obligation and Expenditures Report, Logic      
  Model, and Closeout Report.                                                         
Audits:                                                                               
  Main Street grants are audited with regular audits of the unit of local             
  government and after grant close-out.                                               
Records:                                                                              
  Copies of budgets and accumulative cost records through the grant period, and       
  other records necessary to indicate compliance with the Grant Agreement.            
Account Identification:                                                               
  86-0218-0-1-604.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Grants) FY 07 $3,000,000; FY 08 est $4,000,000; and FY 09 est $0.                  
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  The Main Street Grants have a statutory maximum of $1 million per grant and a       
  total Annual amount of at most 5 percent of that year's HOPE VI appropriation.      
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  Approximately half of the Main Street grants funded the development of housing      
  units in small, single building projects. The other half of the grants added to the 
  mixed-finance funding of larger developments of up to seventy-five units.           
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  No regulations have been published, although authorizing legislation at Section     
  24 of the 1937 Housing Act is extremely detailed. Although not specifically         
  applicable, Main Street housing development is processed using HUD's Office         
  of Public and Indian Housing Mixed-finance regulations at 24 CFR 941.606, or        
  HOPE VI homeownership under Section 24 of the 1937 Act. Each grant is               
  subject to the terms of its NOFA and Grant Agreement, which is the contract         
  signed by the Grantee and HUD. HUD posts guidance to its Main Street website        
  at http://www.hud.gov/offices/pih/programs/ph/hope6/grants/mainstreet/ with         
  links to Main Street's most recent NOFA, program summaries, general guidance        
  materials, mixed-finance guidance materials, and relevant statutes, regulations     
  and notices. This web site provides Grantees with information on timelines,         
  budgets, financial instructions, and other program guidance.                        
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  All Main Street grants are administered at Headquarters by the Office of Public     
  Housing Investments (OPHI). The level of field office involvement in the            
  administration of Main Street grants is limited to issuance of the required         
  environmental review (24 CFR Part 50), and construction inspections. Grantees       
  should contact OPHI at (202) 401-8812, until a HUD Grant Manager is                 
  assigned. Grantees should also contact the HUD Field Office Public Housing          
  Division that has jurisdiction for their area. Local Public Housing Divisions are   
  listed on the internet at http://www.hud.gov/offices/pih/about/focontacts.cfm.      
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Deputy Assistant Secretary       
  for Public Housing Investments, Office of Urban Revitalization, Department of       
  Housing and Urban Development, 451 7th Street, S.W., Washington, DC                 
                                                                                      
366                                                                             11-08

  20410. Telephone: (202) 401-8812.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/pih/programs/ph/hope6/grants/mainstreet/.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  14.866, Demolition and Revitalization of Severely Distressed Public Housing;
  14.872, Public Housing Capital Fund.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  As published in each NOFA.
14.879 MAINSTREAM VOUCHERS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  PUBLIC AND INDIAN HOUSING, DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND
  URBAN DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORIZATION:
  Cranston Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act, 42 U.S.C. 8013, Public
  Law 101-625.
OBJECTIVES:
  To aid persons with disabilities (elderly and non-elderly)in obtaining decent,
  safe, and sanitary rental housing For Welfare-to-Work rental vouchers, families
  must also meet special welfare-to-work criteria.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Provides housing assistance payments to participating owners on behalf of
  eligible tenants to provide decent, safe, and sanitary housing at rents they can
  afford. Housing assistance payments are generally the difference between the
  local payment standard and 30 percent of the family's adjusted income.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Public housing agencies (PHA)that is defined as any State, county, municipality
  or other governmental entity or public body (or agency or instrumentality
  thereof) which is authorized to engage in or assist in the development or
  operation of housing for very low income families; and a consortium of PHAs;
  any other nonprofit entity that was administering a Section 8 tenant-based
  program on October 21, 1998; or, for an area outside the jurisdiction of a PHA
  administering a voucher program, a private nonprofit entity or a governmental
  entity or public body that would otherwise lack jurisdiction to administer the
  program in such area and non-profit organization that provide services to the
  disabled as defined in 42 U.S.C.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Disabled family that is income-eligible under the Housing Choice Voucher
  program regulations at 24 CFR 982.201(b)(1)as well as other wise eligible under
  the regulations at 24CFR 982.201, may receive a voucher awarded on the
  Mainstream Program Applicants with disabilities must be selected from the
  PHA's or nonprofit organization's housing choice voucher waiting list.
Credentials/Documentation:
  In the Mainstream Voucher Program, the PHA or non-organization must support
  its application by furnishing data that the program proposed is responsive to the
  demand for housing for non-elderly and elderly persons with disabilities would
  equal or exceed the requested number of vouchers.
Preapplication Coordination:
  To the extent appropriations are available, the Department will publish a Notice
  of Funding availability (NOFA) in the Federal Register identifying allocation
  areas, amount of funds available for each area, and the selection criteria for
  rating and ranking applications. Applicants will have at least 60 days to submit
  an application. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular
  No. A-102 and E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Submission of Application for Housing Assistance Payments Program (Form
  HUD-52515). This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular
  No. A-110.
Award Procedure:
  The HUD Grants Management Center generally makes the final decision based
  on the results of the rating and ranking process.
Deadlines:
  Applications should be submitted in accordance with the time frame stated in
  the NOFA.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Generally 45 days from the date of receipt and approval of applications.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Expiring increments of Mainstream voucher program assistance are
  automatically renewed by HUD.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  There are no matching requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  New funding is provided for 5 years.
Reports:
