14.881 MOVING TO WORK DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM                                          
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  PUBLIC AND INDIAN HOUSING, DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND                               
  URBAN DEVELOPMENT                                                                  
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Omnibus Consolidated Rescissions and Appropriations Act of 1996 (Public Law        
  104-134, 110 Stat. 1321).                                                          
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  The purpose of this demonstration is to give public housing agencies and the       
  Secretary of Housing and Urban Development the flexibility to design and test      
  various approaches for providing and administering housing assistance that:        
  reduce cost and achieve greater cost effectiveness in Federal expenditures; give   
  incentives to families with children where the head of household is working,       
  seeking work, or is preparing for work by participating in job training,           
  educational programs, or programs that assist people to obtain employment and      
  become economically self-sufficient; and increase housing choices for low-         
  income families.                                                                   
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Formula Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Under the demonstration, notwithstanding any provision of the United States        
  Housing Act of 1937 except as provided in section 204(e)of Public Law 104-         
  134, an agency may combine operating assistance provided under section 9 of        
  the United States Housing Act of 1937, and tenant-based assistance provided        
  under section 8 of such Act,to provide housing assistance for low-income           
  families, as defined in section 3(b)(2) of the United States Housing Act of 1937,  
  and services to facilitate the transition to work on such terms and conditions as  
  the agency may propose and the Secretary may approve.                              
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Public housing agencies administering the public housing program and/or the        
  section 8 housing assistance payments program may be selected by the Secretary     
  to participate.                                                                    
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Low-income public housing residents.                                               
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  PHAs must enter into an agreement with the Department that details the terms       
  and conditions of participation in the demonstration.                              
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  Preapplication Coordination: PHAs consult with local government officials and      
  PHA residents as they plan for activities to be included in the application. The   
  initial application must request authority to combine assistance under sections 8  
  and 9 of the United States Housing Act of 1937; must be submitted only after       
  the public housing agency provides for citizen participation through a public      
  hearing and, if appropriate, other means; and must include a plan developed by

  the agency that takes into account comments from the public hearing and any        
  other public comments on the proposed program, and comments from current

                                                                                     
  and prospective residents who would be affected. This program is not eligible

  for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal                
  Programs."                                                                         
Application Procedure:                                                               
  PHAs annually submit an MTW Plan to the program office that documents new          
  and ongoing MTW activities. Plans must include criteria for: (A) families to be    
  assisted, which shall require that at least 75 percent of the families assisted by 
  participating demonstration public housing authorities shall be very low-income    
  families, as defined in section 3(b)(2) of the United States Housing Act of 1937;  
  (B) establishing a reasonable rent policy, which shall be designed to encourage    
  employment and self-sufficiency by participating families, consistent with the     
  purpose of this demonstration, such as by excluding some or all of a family's      
  earned income for purposes of determining rent; (C) continuing to assist           
  substantially the same total number of eligible low-income families as would       
  have been served had the amounts not been combined; (D) maintaining a              
  comparable mix of families (by family size) as would have been provided had        
  the amounts not been used under the demonstration; and (E) assuring that           
  housing assisted under the demonstration program meets housing quality             
  standards established or approved by the Secretary; and (4) may request            
  assistance for training and technical assistance to assist with design of the      
  demonstration and to participate in a detailed evaluation.                         
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  The program office reviews and approves the MTW Plan.                              
Deadlines:                                                                           
  PHAs must submit an MTW Plan to the program office 75 days in advance of           
  the PHA's fiscal year.                                                             
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  The program office must notify the PHA within 75 days after the PHA submits        
  the Plan of disapproval. If the PHA is not notified of disapproval within 75 days, 
  the Plan shall be considered approved.                                             
Appeals:                                                                             
  To be determined.                                                                  
Renewals:                                                                            


368                                                                            11-08

  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  MTW agencies are funded in accordance with their agreement. No additional
  funds other than those provided under Sections 8 and 9 of the United States
  Housing Act of 1937 are provided.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  MTW agencies must meet the requirements stated in their MTW agreement.
Reports:
  To be determined.
Audits:
  The MTW program is audited in conjunction with the regular HUD or
  independent public accountant audit of PHA operations.
Records:
  The PHA must maintain budgets and cumulative cost records for review by
  HUD and independent auditors, as applicable.
Account Identification:
  86-0302-0-1-604; 86-0304-0-1-604; 86-0163-0-1-604.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 reported under 14.871, 14.872, 14.850; FY 08 reported under
  14.871, 14.872, 14.850; and FY 09 reported under 14.871, 14.872, 14.850.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $3,849,147 to $710,871,239; $99,333,263.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  A standard MTW Agreement was developed and implemented in 2008. It has a
  ten-year term and will mandate evaluations of MTW agencies three years and six
  years into the demonstration.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Not applicable.
Regional or Local Office:
  Inquiries should be addressed to the Public Housing Director who has
  jurisdiction over the PHA (See the Catalog, Appendix IV for HUD Program
  office addresses).
Headquarters Office:
  Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Washington DC 20410.
  Telephone: (202) 708-0950.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/pih/programs/ph/mtw/.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  14.850, Public and Indian Housing; 14.871, Section 8 Housing Choice
  Vouchers; 14.872, Public Housing Capital Fund.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
14.900 LEAD-BASED PAINT HAZARD CONTROL IN
PRIVATELY-OWNED HOUSING
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF HEALTHY HOMES AND LEAD HAZARD CONTROL,
  DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORIZATION:
  Sections 501 and 502 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1970;
  Consolidated Appropriations Act 2008, Public Law 110-161.
OBJECTIVES:
  Lead-Based Paint Hazard Control grants assist State, Tribal, and local
  governments to identify and control lead-based paint hazards in privately-owned
  housing that is owned by or rented to low- or very-low income families. Specific
  objectives include: (1) Maximize the combination of children less than six years
  of age protected from lead poisoning and housing units where lead-hazards are
  controlled; (2) Preventing childhood lead poisoning; (3) Stimulate lower-cost
  and cost-effective methods and approaches to lead hazard control work that can
  be replicated; (4) Build local capacity to safely and effectively address lead
  hazards during lead hazard control, renovation, remodeling, and maintenance
  activities by integrating lead safe work practices into housing maintenance,
  repair, weatherization, rehabilitation and other programs that will continue
  beyond the grant period; (5) Affirmatively further fair housing and
  environmental justice (6) Develop a comprehensive community approach to
  address lead hazards in housing by mobilizing public and private resources,
  involving cooperation among all levels of government, the private sector, and
  grassroots community-based nonprofit organizations, including faith-based
  organizations, to develop cost-effective methods for identifying and controlling
  lead-based paint hazards (7) establishing a public registry of lead-safe housing;
  and (8)To the greatest extent feasible, promote job training, employment, and
  other economic opportunities for low-income and minority residents and
  businesses that are owned by and/or employ minorities and low-income persons
  as defined in 24 CFR 135.5 (see 59 FR 33881, June 30, 1994).
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
