Award Procedure:                                                                   
  HUD's review and awarding procedures are explained in the NOFA.                  
Deadlines:                                                                         
  To be considered for funding, the application should be submitted electronically 
  through www.grants.gov no later than 11:59:59 p.m. on July 17, 2008, the date

  and time specified in the 2008 NOFA. Applications for waivers from the

  electronic submission must be submitted as specified in the General Section.

                                                                                   
  Announcements regarding availability of funding were published in the Federal    
  Register on May 12, 2008.                                                        
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                
  None.                                                                            
Appeals:                                                                           
  None.                                                                            
Renewals:                                                                          
  None.                                                                            
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                 
  None.                                                                            
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                             
  Healthy Homes Demonstration grants are awarded for a period of performance       
  up to 36 months from the effective date of award. HUD reserves the right to      
  approve no cost time extensions. Payment is on a cost-reimbursable basis.        
Reports:                                                                           
  Quarterly financial management and performance reports and benchmark             
  standards are required.                                                          
Audits:                                                                            
  In accordance with OMB Circular No. A-133.                                       
Records:                                                                           
  For State, local and Federally-recognized Indian Tribal governments, as required 
  by OMB Circular A-110, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and       
  Cooperative Agreements to State, Local, and Federally-recognized Indian Tribal   
  Governments." For nonprofit and educational institutions, as required by OMB     
  Circular A-110, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and              
  Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other Non-      
  Profit Organizations."                                                           
Account Identification:                                                            
  86-0174-0-1-451.                                                                 
Obligations:                                                                       
  (Grants) FY 07 $4,897,000; FY 08 est $4,375,000: and FY 09 est $5,000,000.       
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                         
  HUD will make about $5,000,000 available in FY 2006 funds for the Healthy        
  Homes.                                                                           
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                           
  Healthy Homes Demonstration Program activities have included hazard              
  assessment and mitigation projects, national and local public education efforts, 
  and housing-related hazard awareness training for health care and day care       
  professionals, environmental specialists, peer educators and hazard remediation  
  workers. Through two grants specifically targeting mold and moisture control in  
  inner city housing, a visual assessment protocol, with linkages to work          
  specifications, was developed. One education grant developed and launched a      
  web-based 'E-house' that enabled parents to 'walk from room to room'             
  identifying household pollutants, pathways of exposure and finding alternative   
  products and services for minimizing potential health risks.                     
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                           
  The Notice of Funding Availability is available at Grants.gov; all necessary     
  information is provided; no other regulations pertain. For Healthy Homes         
  Program Cooperative Agreements, there is some change in the content and          
  direction of the NOFA that is issued each year, dependent on SuperNOFA           
  format, Congressional direction, changes in emphasis among priorities, and       
  improvements based on experience with prior NOFAs.                               
Regional or Local Office:                                                          
  None.                                                                            
Headquarters Office:                                                               
  Dr. Suzanne Gaynor, Office of Lead Hazard Control, Department of Housing         
  and Urban Development, 451 Seventh Street, S.W., Room P-3206, Washington,        
  DC 20410. Telephone: (202) 402-7689 (this is not a toll-free number). If you     
  are a hearing- or speech-impaired person, you may reach the above telephone      
  number via TTY by calling the toll-free Federal Information Relay Service at (1- 
  800) 877-8339.                                                                   
Web Site Address:                                                                  
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/lead/.                                                
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                  
  14.902, Lead Technical Studies Grants; 14.903, Operation Lead Elimination        
  Action Program; 14.906, Healthy Homes Technical Studies Grants.                  
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                       
  The New England Asthma Regional Council promotes the adoption of the             
  Asthma Regional Council (ARC) Guidelines for incorporating healthy housing       
  practices in new construction and rehabilitation projects. Training is being     
  provided to 200 code inspectors, 100 affordable housing professionals, and 70    
  residents. Neighborhood House, in Seattle, in collaboration with public and      
  private partners, will adopt a holistic approach to construct 35 asthma-safe     
                                                                                   
370                                                                          11-08

  homes through the HOPE VI projects of the Seattle Housing Authority.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  For Fiscal Year 2008 HUD will use the technical and financial selection criteria
  listed in the NOFA.
14.902 LEAD TECHNICAL STUDIES GRANTS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF HEALTHY HOMES AND LEAD HAZARD CONTROL,
  DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORIZATION:
  Housing and Community Development Act of 1992, Title X, Public Law 102-
  550; Revised Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 2007, Public Law 110-5.
OBJECTIVES:
  To fund technical studies to improve methods for detecting and controlling lead-
  based paint hazards.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Cooperative Agreements.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  For fiscal year 2008, potential applicants should consult the General Section of
  the NOFA for available grant funding, particular requirements and restrictions,
  and application due dates. The applications for this NOFA can be found at
  www.grants.gov. The application is an electronic application. You must be
  registered at www.grants.gov to submit your application.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Academic, not-for-profit and for-profit institutions located in the U.S. (for-profit
  firms are not allowed to profit from the project), State and local governments,
  and Federally-recognized Indian Tribes in the United States. Federal agencies
  and Federal employees are not eligible to apply for this program.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Homeowners, rental property owners, and public housing residents in housing
  with lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State,
  local and Federally-recognized Indian Tribal governments and specific
  requirements of 24 CFR Part 85. Costs will be determined for nonprofit and
  educational institutions in accordance with OMB Circulars No. A-122 and No.
  A-21, respectively, and in accordance with the requirements of 24 CFR Part 84.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Not applicable. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  The competitive Notification of Funding Availability (NOFA) for fiscal year
  2008 Lead Technical Studies Grants provides information about the application
  procedure. All grants must be submitted electronically, via www.grants.gov,
  unless a waiver from electronic submission is received. Copies of the NOFA
  and required forms can be obtained at Grants.gov. Other relevant information
  can be found at HUD's website, www.hud.gov, or the Office's website,
  www.hud.gov/offices/lead. For questions related to the application process, e-
  mail Support@grants.gov, call grants.gov at 800-518-GRANTS or via TTY by
  calling the toll-free Federal Information Relay Service at (800) 877-8339.
Award Procedure:
  HUD's review and awarding procedures are explained in the NOFA.
Deadlines:
  To be considered for funding, the application should be submitted electronically
  through www.grants.gov no later than 11:59:59 p.m. on July 3, 2008, the date
  and time specified in the 2008 NOFA. Applications for waivers from the
  electronic submission must be submitted as specified in the General Section.
  Announcements regarding availability of funding were published in the Federal
  Register on May 12, 2008.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  None.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Lead Technical Studies grants are awarded up to 36 months after the date of
  award. HUD reserves the right to approve no cost time extensions for a period
  not to exceed 12 months. Payment is on a cost-reimbursable basis.
Reports:
  Quarterly financial management and performance reports are required of
  participating jurisdictions.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
