  Information Relay Service at (1-800 877-8339).                                      
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/lead.                                                    
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  14.900, Lead-Based Paint Hazard Control in Privately-Owned Housing; 14.904,         
  Lead Outreach Grants; 14.905, Lead Hazard Reduction Demonstration Grant             
  Program.                                                                            
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  National Safety Council assists community-based organizations in building local     
  capacity for lead hazard control and to implement lead hazard control projects in   
  low income privately-owned rental or owner occupied housing in high risk            
  neighborhoods. The ACCESS Agency will partner with the Salvation Army, a            
  coalition of low-income homeowners and landlords of low-income housing, a           
  regional municipal health department, a regional hospital, regional                 
  municipalities, area banks and local motels to provide temporary housing for        
  families whose homes are undergoing lead hazard control action, mobilize            
  private sector resources, provide meaningful educational activities for residents   
  and landlords that focus on the dangers of lead poisoning in the home and           
  strategies to minimize these dangers, and, provide financial and technical          
  assistance to low-income landlords and homeowners to enable them to upgrade         
  residential units and make them lead-safe for families and children. The            
  Neighborhood Improvement Development Corporation will use health/housing            
  partnerships with the Milwaukee Health Department, local banks, neighborhood        
  associations, apartment owners, and the Milwaukee Foundation. The Energy            
  Program Consortium, a joint venture of low-income home energy assistance            
  program directors; state weatherization assistance program directors, and state     
  energy officials, will raise funds for lead hazard control activities from national 
  foundations, corporations and financial institutions, building upon the successful  
  collaboration between local lead hazard control and weatherization programs.        
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  For Fiscal Year 2008 HUD will use the technical and financial selection criteria    
  listed in the NOFA.                                                                 
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
14.904 LEAD OUTREACH GRANTS                                                           
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  OFFICE OF HEALTHY HOMES AND LEAD HAZARD CONTROL,                                    
  DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT                                         
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Sections 1011(e)(8) and (g)(1) of the Residential Lead-Based Paint Hazard           
  Reduction Act of 1992 and the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2008 (Public         
  Law 110-161, approved December 26, 2007). Section 1011(e)(8) and Section            
  1011(g)(1).                                                                         
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  (1) Increase enrollment of low-income units in HUD or other lead hazard             
  treatment programs. (2) Increase number of residents, housing owners,               
  community leaders, maintenance and rehabilitation workers, and other related        
  persons who are aware of and able to identify lead-based paint hazards.             
  (3)Increase number of residents, housing owners, community leaders,                 
  maintenance and rehabilitation workers, and other related persons who               
  understand proper lead hazard control methods. (4) Develop easy to use and          
  sustainable systems for reporting and addressing lead hazards. (5) Develop          
  effective partnerships between public and private entities, including grassroots,   
  community-based and faith-based organizations, dedicated to reducing lead           
  hazards.                                                                            
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  For Fiscal Year 2008, potential applicants should consult the general section of    
  the NOFA for available grant funding, particular requirements and restrictions,     
  and application due dates.                                                          
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Academic, not-for-profit and for-profit institutions located in the United States,  
  states and units of general local government, and federally recognized Native       
  American tribes are eligible to apply. For-profit firms are eligible to apply, but  
  not allowed to earn a fee (i.e., make a profit from the project).                   
                                                                                      
Beneficiary Eligibility:

  Homeowners, rental property owners, and public housing residents. Families          
  with children under age six.                                                        
                                                                                      
Credentials/Documentation:

  Costs will be determined for non-profit and for-profit entities in accordance with  
                                                                                      
  OMB Circulars No. A-122 and specific requirements of 24 CFR Part 84. Costs

                                                                                      
  will be determined for educational institutions in accordance with OMB Circular

                                                                                      
  No. A-21 and specific requirements of 24 CFR Part 84. Costs will be determined

                                                                                      
  for State, local and Federally-recognized Indian Tribal governments in

                                                                                      
  accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 and specific requirements of 24 CFR

                                                                                      
  Part 85.

                                                                                      
Preapplication Coordination:

                                                                                      
  Not applicable. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.

Application Procedure:



372                                                                             11-08

  The competitive Notification of Funding Availability (NOFA) for fiscal year
  2008 Lead Outreach Grants provides information about the application
  procedure. All grants must be submitted electronically, via www.grants.gov,
  unless a waiver from electronic submission is received. Copies of the NOFA
  and required forms can be obtained at Grants.gov. Other relevant information
  can be found at HUD's website, www.hud.gov, or the Office's website,
  www.hud.gov/offices/lead. For questions related to the application process, E-
  mail: Support@grants.gov, call grants.gov at (800) 518-GRANTS or via TTY by
  calling the toll-free Federal Information Relay Service at (1-800) 877-8339.
Award Procedure:
  HUDs review and awarding procedures are explained in the NOFA.
Deadlines:
  Please contact program office for application deadline.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  None.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Ten percent matching by the applicant is required.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The period of performance cannot exceed 24 months from the date of the award.
  A period of performance extension for delays due to exceptional conditions
  beyond the grantee's control will be considered for approval by HUD in
  accordance with 24 CFR 85.30(d)(2) or 24 CFR 84.25(e)(2), as applicable, and
  the Office of Healthy Homes and Lead Hazard Control (OHHLHC) Program
  Guide. Only one extension will be provided for a period not to exceed 12
  months.
Reports:
  Quarterly financial management and performance reports are required of
  participating jurisdictions.
Audits:
  All awardees must comply with the audit requirements in OMB Circular No. A-
  133.
Records:
  For State, local and Federally-recognized Indian Tribal governments, as required
  by OMB Circular A-110, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and
  Cooperative Agreements to State, Local, and Federally-recognized Indian Tribal
  Governments." For nonprofit and educational institutions, as required by OMB
  Circular A-110, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and
  Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other
  Nonprofit Organizations."
Account Identification:
  86-0174-0-1-451.
Obligations:
  FY 07 est $1,187,519; FY 08 est $2,000,000; and FY 09 $2,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Approximately $ 1.5 million is available under this program. HUD estimates
  that approximately 5 to approximately 8 grants will be awarded, ranging
  between approximately $100,000 and approximately $300,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Grants to state and local governments and nonprofit organizations have raised
  public awareness of lead poisoning prevention and referred units to lead
  treatment programs. This program has also increased local capacity of lead-
  trained workers.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  The Notice of Funding Availability is self-explanatory; all necessary information
  is provided; no other regulations pertain.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Jonnette G. Hawkins, Director, Programs Division, Office of Lead Hazard
  Control, Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 Seventh Street,
  S.W., Room 8236, Washington, DC 20410. Telephone: (202) 402-7593 (this is
  not a toll-free number). If you are a hearing- or speech-impaired person, you
  may reach the above telephone number via TTY by calling the toll-free Federal
  Information Relay Service at (1-800) 877-8339.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/lead.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  14.900, Lead-Based Paint Hazard Control in Privately-Owned Housing; 14.903,
  Operation Lead Elimination Action Program; 14.905, Lead Hazard Reduction
  Demonstration Grant Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  For Fiscal Year 2008 HUD will use the technical and financial selection criteria
  listed in the NOFA.
