14.905 LEAD HAZARD REDUCTION DEMONSTRATION                                          
GRANT PROGRAM                                                                       
                                                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     
  OFFICE OF HEALTHY HOMES AND LEAD HAZARD CONTROL,                                  
  DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT                                       
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                      
  Sections 501 and 502 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1970;            
  Consolidated Appropriations Act 2008, Public Law 110-161.                         
OBJECTIVES:                                                                         
  Lead Hazard Reduction Demonstration Grant assist State, Tribal, and local         
  governments to identify and control lead-based paint hazards in privately-owned   
  housing that is owned by or rented to low- or very-low income families. Specific  
  objectives include: (1) Maximize the combination of children less than six years  
  of age protected from lead poisoning and housing units where lead-hazards are     
  controlled; (2) preventing childhood lead poisoning; (3) Stimulate lower-cost     
  and cost-effective methods and approaches to lead hazard control work that can    
  be replicated; (4)Build local capacity to safely and effectively address lead     
  hazards during lead hazard control, renovation, remodeling, and maintenance       
  activities by integrating lead safe work practices into housing maintenance,      
  repair, weatherization, rehabilitation and other programs that will continue      
  beyond the grant period; (5) Affirmatively further fair housing and               
  environmental justice (6) Develop a comprehensive community approach to           
  address lead hazards in housing by mobilizing public and private resources,       
  involving cooperation among all levels of government, the private sector, and     
  grassroots community-based nonprofit organizations, including faith-based         
  organizations, to develop cost-effective methods for identifying and controlling  
  lead-based paint hazards (7) establishing a public registry of lead-safe housing; 
  and (8) To the greatest extent feasible, promote job training, employment, and    
  other economic opportunities for low-income and minority residents and            
  businesses that are owned by and/or employ minorities and low-income persons      
  as defined in 24 CFR 135.5 (See 59 FR 33881, June 30, 1994).                      
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                
  Project Grants.                                                                   
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                          
  For Fiscal Year 2008, potential applicants should consult the NOFA for            
  available grant funding, particular requirements and restrictions, and application
  due dates. Submit your electronic application through http://www.grants.gov.      
Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  To be eligible to apply for the Lead Hazard Reduction Demonstration Program,      
  the applicant must be a city, county, or other unit of local government. States   
  and Indian Tribes may apply on behalf of units of local government within their   
  jurisdiction, if the local government designates the state or the Indian Tribe as 
  their applicant. Multiple units of a local government (or multiple local          
  governments) may apply as part of a consortium; however, you must identify a      
  prime applicant that will be responsible for ensuring compliance with all         
  requirements specified in this NOFA. State government and Native American         
  tribal applicants must have an EPA approved State Program for certification of    
  lead-based paint contractors, inspectors, and risk assessors in accordance with   
  40 CFR 745 in effect on the application deadline date to be eligible to apply for 
  Lead Hazard Reduction Demonstration Grant funds.                                  
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                            
  Occupants and owners of eligible target housing, Section 1011(a) of the           
  Residential Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction Act of 1992 (Title X). Lead         
  Hazard Reduction Demonstration Grants shall be for lead-based paint hazard        
  control in this housing. Funds shall be available only for projects conducted     
  using contractors and inspectors certified, and workers trained through an EPA    
  authorized program. Selected beneficiaries must comply with all eligibility       
  criteria and all applicable restrictions presented in the Appropriation language  
  and with all requirements presented in the NOFA.                                  
Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  For the Lead Hazard Control Grant Program, costs will be determined in            
  accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments and         
  specific requirements of 24 CFR 85.                                               
                                                                                    
Preapplication Coordination:

  Not applicable. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.          
Application Procedure:                                                              
  The competitive Notification of Funding Availability (NOFA) for fiscal year       
  2008 Lead Hazard Reduction Demonstration Grants provides information about        
  the application procedure. All grants must be submitted electronically, via       
  www.grants.gov, unless a waiver from electronic submission is received. Copies    
  of the NOFA and required forms can be obtained at Grants.gov. Other relevant      
  information can be found at HUD's website, www.hud.gov, or the Office's           
  website, www.hud.gov/offices/lead/. For questions related to the application      
  process, E-mail: Support@grants.gov, call grants.gov at (800) 518-GRANTS or       
                                                                                    
  via TTY by calling the toll-free Federal Information Relay Service at (1-800)

                                                                                    
  877-8339.

                                                                                    
Award Procedure:

  HUD's review and awarding procedures are explained in the NOFA.                   
Deadlines:                                                                          


                                                                               11-08
  To be considered for funding, the application should be submitted electronically
  through Grants.gov no later than 11:59:59 p.m. on July 17, 2008, the date
  specified in the 2008 NOFA. Applications for waivers from the electronic
  submission must be submitted as specified in the General Section. No hand-
  delivered applications will be accepted. Announcements regarding availability of
  funding were published in the Federal Register on May 12, 2008.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  None.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  25 percent local match, which may be cash, including private sector funding, in-
  kind contributions, or both. For the Lead Hazard Reduction Demonstration
  Grant Program, HUD may grant a waiver of the 25 percent match requirement, if
  the applicant submits a request that meets HUD's criteria. Waiver eligible
  applicants should provide the 10% match. Except for Community Development
  Block Grant (CDBG) funds, Federal Revenue Sharing programs, or other
  programs which by statute allow their funds to be considered local funds and
  therefore eligible to be used as matching funds, Federal funds may not be used to
  satisfy the statutory 10 percent requirement, but may be used for contributions
  above that requirement. You must support each source of contributions by a
  letter of commitment from the contributing entity, describing the contributed
  resources and their designated purpose.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The Lead Hazard Reduction Demonstration Grant award for a period of
  performance is 36 months. HUD reserves the right to approve no cost time
  extensions for a period not to exceed 12 months.
Reports:
  Quarterly financial management and performance reports are required of
  participating jurisdictions.
Audits:
  In accordance with OMB Circular A-133.
Records:
  As required by OMB Circular A-110 Uniform Administrative Requirements for
  Grants and Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and
  Other Non-Profit Organizations."
Account Identification:
  86-0174-0-1-451.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $54,700,000; FY 08 est $44,000,000; and FY 09 $48,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Approximately $44.7 million in fiscal year 2008 funds is available. The
  minimum award amount shall be approximately $1 million per grant up to $4
  million per grant. Approximately 10 to approximately 14 grants will be awarded
  to applicants for the Lead Hazard Reduction Demonstration Program.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Lead Hazard Reduction Demonstration Grant Program projects are designed to
  accomplish the following objectives: Perform testing and lead hazard control
  activities in targeted, low-income, owner occupied rental housing, and conduct
  general or targeted community awareness and education programs on lead
  hazard control and poisoning prevention within this designated area.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  The Notice of Funding Availability is available at Grants.gov; all necessary
  information is provided; no other regulations pertain. For Lead Hazard
  Reduction Demonstration grants, there is some change in the content and
  direction of the NOFA that is issued each year, dependent on SuperNOFA
  format, Congressional direction, changes in emphasis among priorities, and
  improvements based on experience with prior NOFAs.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Jonnette G. Hawkins, Director, Programs Division, Office of Lead Hazard
  Control, Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 Seventh Street,
  S.W., Room 8236, Washington, DC 20410. Telephone: (202) 402-7593 (this is
  not a toll-free number). If you are a hearing- or speech-impaired person, you may
  reach the above telephone number via TTY by calling the toll-free Federal
  Information Relay Service at (1-800) 877-8339.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/lead.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  14.900, Lead-Based Paint Hazard Control in Privately-Owned Housing; 14.903,
  Operation Lead Elimination Action Program; 14.904, Lead Outreach Grants.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  San Bernardino County, California, works with its partners to provide abatement
  services to low-and moderate-income families in approximately 300 housing
  units, especially the homes of children with high blood-lead levels where
  documented lead-based paint hazards have been identified. The District of
  Columbia's Department of Housing and Community Development partners with
                                                                                 373
