  DC's Department of Health, Department of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs,            
  and Department of Employment Services, with supporting partnerships with the         
  Office of Local Business Development, several low-income community-based             
  organizations, and local environmental organizations, to conduct lead hazard         
  control in high-risk communities.                                                    
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  For Fiscal Year 2008 HUD will use the technical and financial selection criteria     
  listed in the NOFA.                                                                  
                                                                                       
                                                                                       
14.906 HEALTHY HOMES TECHNICAL STUDIES GRANTS                                          
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  OFFICE OF HEALTHY HOMES AND LEAD HAZARD CONTROL,                                     
  DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT                                          
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Sections 501 and 502 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1970;               
  Revised Continuing Appropriations Resolution,2007, Public Law 110-5.                 
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To fund technical studies to improve methods for detecting and controlling           
  housing-related health and safety hazards. The purpose of the Healthy Homes          
  Technical Studies program is to improve our knowledge of housing-related             
  health hazards, and to improve or develop new hazard assessment and control          
  methods.                                                                             
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Cooperative Agreements.                                                              
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  For Fiscal Year 2008, potential applicants should consult the General Section of     
  the NOFA for available grant funding, particular requirements and restrictions,      
  and application due dates. The applications for this NOFA can be found at            
  www.grants.gov. The application is an electronic application. You must be            
  registered at www.grants.gov to submit your application.                             
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Academic, not-for-profit and for-profit institutions located in the U.S. (for-profit 
  firms are not allowed to profit from the project), State and local governments,      
  and Federally recognized Native American tribes are eligible under all existing      
  authorizations. Applications for supplementation of existing projects are eligible   
  to compete with applications for new awards. Federal agencies and federal            
  employees are not eligible to submit applications. The General Section of the        
  SuperNOFA provides additional eligibility requirements.                              
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Homeowners, rental property owners, and public housing residents.                    
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State,         
  local and Federally Recognized Indian Tribal governments and specific                
  requirements of 24 CFR Part 85. Costs will be determined for nonprofit and           
  educational institutions in accordance with OMB Circulars No. A-122 and No.          
  A-21, respectively, and in accordance with the requirements of 24 CFR Part 84.       
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  Not applicable. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.             
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  The competitive Notification of Funding Availability (NOFA) for fiscal year          
  2008 Healthy Homes Technical Studies Grants provides information about the           
  application procedure. All grants must be submitted electronically, via              
  www.grants.gov, unless a waiver from electronic submission is received. Copies

  of the NOFA and required forms can be obtained at Grants.gov. Other relevant

  information can be found at HUD's website, www.hud.gov, or the Office's

  website, www.hud.gov/offices/lead. For questions related to the application

  process, E-mail Support@grants.gov, call grants.gov at (800) 518-GRANTS or

  via TTY by calling the toll-free Federal Information Relay Service at (800) 877-

  8339.

Award Procedure:

  HUD's review and awarding procedures are explained in the NOFA.

Deadlines:

  To be considered for funding, the application should be submitted electronically

  through www.grants.gov no later than 11:59:59 p.m. on July 3, 2008, the date

  and time specified in the 2008 NOFA. Applications for waivers from the

  electronic submission must be submitted as specified in the General Section.

  Announcements regarding availability of funding were published in the Federal

  Register on May 12, 2008.

Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

  None.

Appeals:

  None.

Renewals:

  None.

Formula and Matching Requirements:

  None.

Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

  Healthy Homes Technical Studies grants are awarded up to 36 months after the

  date of award. HUD reserves the right to approve no cost time extensions for a





374                                                                              11-08

  period not to exceed 12 months. Payment is on a cost-reimbursable basis.
Reports:
  Quarterly financial management and performance reports are required.
Audits:
  In accordance with OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  As required by OMB Circular A-102, "Grants and Cooperative Agreements
  With State and Local Governments" or OMB Circular A-110, "Uniform
  Administrative Requirements for Grants and Agreements with Institutions of
  Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other Non-Profit Organizations."
Account Identification:
  86-0174-0-1-451.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $2,000,000; FY 08 est $2,100,000; and FY 09 est $2,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  The total amount to be awarded is approximately $2 million. The anticipated
  amounts and/or numbers of individual awards will be approximately 3 to
  approximately 5 grants or cooperative agreements, ranging from approximately
  $200,000 to a maximum of $1 million.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Healthy Homes Technical Studies grants have resulted in, for example, low cost
  interventions to reduce moisture intrusion and associated mold problems in
  urban homes and documenting an improvement in the symptoms of asthmatic
  children following such interventions; developing improved methods for
  controlling cockroaches and cleaning cockroach allergen, the development of a
  scoring system for injury hazards in homes.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  The Notice of Funding Availability and Application Kit are self-contained; all
  necessary information is provided; no other regulations pertain.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Dr. Peter J. Ashley, Office of Healthy Homes and Lead Hazard Control, 451
  Seventh Street, S.W., Room 8236, Washington, DC 20410. E-mail:
  Peter.J.Ashley@hud.gov. Telephone: (202) 402-7595 (this is not a toll-free
  number). If you are a hearing- or speech-impaired person, you may reach the
  above telephone number via TTY by calling the toll-free Federal Information
  Relay Service at (800) 877-8339.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/lead.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  14.901, Healthy Homes Demonstration Grants; 14.902, Lead Technical Studies
  Grants.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Studies to design and field test methods of insulating walls that could be
  installed to permanently eliminate moisture and mold conditions in walls cost-
  effectively; laboratory testing of different vacuum protocols to collect dust
  samples for allergen analyses; and improving the assessment of mold exposure
  in an ongoing cohort study of factors associated with asthma development in
  young children.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  For Fiscal Year 2008 HUD will use the technical and financial selection criteria
  listed in the NOFA.
