Appeals:                                                                               
  An unsuccessful applicant may request an informal conference with the deciding       
  official, or may appeal the denial of the application to the Interior Board of       
  Indian Appeals, or may bring suit in U.S. District Court. Full appeal procedures     
  are found in 25 CFR Part 900.                                                        
Renewals:                                                                              
  Awards may be renewed indefinitely upon satisfactory performance by the              
  contractor/grantee. A notice of intent to renew should be submitted at least 90      
  days prior to the expiration of the current award. The amount of the award may       
  be adjusted as a result of individual tribal priorities established in the budget    
  formulation process.                                                                 
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  None.                                                                                
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Awards are made on an annual basis and the funds remain available until              
  expended by the contractor/grantee. Payments may be made in advance or by            
  way of reimbursement. The timing of the payments will be negotiated with the         
  Indian tribe.                                                                        
Reports:                                                                               
  Financial status reports, SF 269A, are required. Program accomplishment              
  reporting requirements will be negotiated with the Self- Determination               
  contractor/grantee.                                                                  
Audits:                                                                                
  For awards made under this program grantees/contractors are responsible for          
  obtaining audits in accordance with the Single Audit Act Amendments of 1996          
  (31 U.S.C. 7501 et seq.).                                                            
Records:                                                                               
  Financial records must be retained for 3 years from the date of submission of the    
  single audit report. Procurement records must be retained for 3 years from the       
  date of final payment. Property records must be retained for three years from the    
  date of disposition, replacement, or transfer. Records pertaining to any litigation, 
  audit exceptions or claims must be retained until the dispute has been resolved.     
Account Identification:                                                                
  14-2100-0-1-452.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  (Total Amount of Awards) FY 07 $63,185,000; FY 08 est $69,240,000, and FY            
  09 est not available.                                                                
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  $1,300 to $2,400,000; $500,000.                                                      
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  Activities supported by this program to foster strong and stable Tribal              
  governments include consolidation of adult education programs, of natural            
  resource programs and of social services programs for more effective and             
  efficient operation of programs providing the potential for an increased level of    
  services.                                                                            
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  25 CFR Part 900; OMB Circular A-87, "Cost Principles for State, Local, and           
  Indian Tribal Governments."                                                          
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  Applications may be filed with the local Bureau of Indian Affairs agency or          
  regional office as listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.                             
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Chief, Deputy Director, Office of Tribal Services, Bureau of Indian Affairs,         
  1849 C Street, NW., MS-320 SIB, Washington, DC 20240. Telephone: (202)               
  513-7640. Use the same number for FTS.                                               
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  a) not available b) http://www.doi.gov/bia/tribegovserv/tribegov.htm.                
  c)http://www.doi.gov/bureau-indian-affairs.html                                      
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  None.                                                                                
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  None.                                                                                
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  All applicants meeting the requirements of 25 CFR Part 900 will be selected if       
  the program has been prioritized by the individual Indian tribe through tribal       
  participation in the Bureau of Indian Affairs' Tribal Priority Allocation budget     
  formulation process.                                                                 
                                                                                       
15.022 TRIBAL SELF-GOVERNANCE                                                          
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR                                 
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, Title IV, Public Law         
  93-638, as amended, 25 U.S.C. 458 aa et seq.

                                                                                       
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To further the goals of Indian Self-Determination by providing funds to Indian       
  tribes to administer a wide range of programs with broad administrative and          
  programmatic flexibility.                                                            
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.

376                                                                              11-08

USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds may be used by Federally Recognized Tribal Governments to support a
  wide range of programs such as law enforcement, tribal courts, scholarships,
  social services, road maintenance, forestry, agriculture, real estate services,
  wildlife and parks, and water resources. Funds may be used only for programs
  previously administered by the Bureau of Indian Affairs or for programs
  specifically authorized by Federal statute and may not be used for the operation
  of elementary and secondary schools or for community colleges. The Indian tribe
  must ensure adequate protection of trust resources.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments and tribal consortia authorized
  by the Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments to be served.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments and their Members.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Initial application must be accompanied by an authorizing resolution of the
  governing body of the Indian tribe or in the case of a consortia, Indian tribes to
  be served. First-time applicants must have successfully completed a planning
  phase and must have demonstrated for the previous three years, financial
  stability and financial management capability.
Preapplication Coordination:
  An informal preapplication conference is recommended. Technical assistance in
  preparing the application is available upon request. This program is excluded
  from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  The application and selection process is governed by regulations contained in 25
  CFR Part 1000. Applicants first apply for inclusion in an applicant pool. Once
  an Indian tribe/consortium has established eligibility for admission to the
  applicant pool, it can be selected to become a Self-Governance Tribe.
  Application information is available from the office(s) listed below under
  "Information Contacts."
Award Procedure:
  The annual dollar value of the funding agreement is subject to negotiation
  between the applicant, the local Bureau agency office, the servicing Regional
  office, and the Office of Self-Governance. Final funding agreements are signed
  by the authorized tribal representative and the Director, Office of Self-
  Governance.
Deadlines:
  An application for inclusion in the applicant pool may be filed at any time.
  However, an Indian tribe/consortium must submit its application by March 1 of
  the year in which the initial funding agreement and compact are to be
  negotiated. The application must be complete before the tribe can be placed in
  the applicant pool and selected to operate as a Self-Governance Tribe.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Funding agreements are to be negotiated and submitted to Congress and
  neighboring Indian tribes at least 90 days before the proposed effective date of
  the agreement. Negotiation and approval of a new funding agreement may take
  up to four months.
Appeals:
  Applicable appeal procedures are contained in 25 CFR Part 1000.
Renewals:
  Funding agreements may be for a single or multi-year period and renewed
  indefinitely upon satisfactory performance by the Indian tribe/consortium. The
  amount of the annual funding agreement may be negotiated each year.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Funds are provided on an annual basis and remain available until expended by
  the tribe/consortium. When possible, payments are made in a lump sum
  following enactment of the Department's appropriations.
Reports:
  The timing and nature of program accomplishment data will be negotiated with
  the Indian tribe/consortium. Annual, external reviews of the management of
  trust assets will be conducted.
Audits:
  For awards made under this program, Indian tribes/consortia are responsible for
  obtaining audits. All nonfederal entities that expend $500,000 or more of
  Federal awards in a year ($300,000 for fiscal year ending on or before December
  30, 2003) are required to obtain an annual audit in accordance with the Single
  Audit Act Amendments of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501 et. seq.) and OMB Circular A-
  133 Compliance Supplement and Government Auditing Standards. Nonfederal
  entities that expend less than $500,000 (for fiscal years ending after December
  1, 2003) a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements
  for that year, except as noted in OMB Circular A-133.
Records:
  Financial records must be retained for 3 years from the date of submission of the
  single audit report. Procurement records must be retained for 3 years from the
  date of final payment. Property records must be retained for 3 years from the
  date of disposition, replacement, or transfer. Records pertaining to any
  litigation, audit exceptions or claims must be retained until the dispute has been
