15.025 SERVICES TO INDIAN CHILDREN, ELDERLY AND                                       
FAMILIES                                                                              
                                                                                      
      (Social Services)                                                               
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR                                
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, Public Law 93-638, as       
  amended, 25 U.S.C. 450 et seq.; Snyder Act of 1921, 25 U.S.C. 13.                   
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To provide funds to Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments to               
  administer welfare assistance programs for both American Indian adults and          
  children; to support caseworkers and counselors; and to support tribal programs     
  to reduce the incidence of substance abuse and alcohol abuse in Indian country.     
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.                                                  
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Funds may be used for staff support and related costs of processing welfare         
  applications, determining suitable placement of American Indian children in         
  need of foster care, staffing and operational costs of emergency shelters, and      
  similar services.                                                                   
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments.                                     
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments, adult American Indians in           
  need of financial assistance or social services counseling, American Indian         
  children who require foster care services, and American Indian youth requiring      
  temporary, emergency shelter.                                                       
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Initial application must be accompanied by an authorizing resolution of the         
  governing body of the Indian tribe.                                                 
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  An informal conference with Bureau of Indian Affairs agency representatives is      
  recommended. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.               
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Initial applications must contain the information specified in 25 CFR Part 900,     
  Subpart C, "Contract Proposal Contents." Completed applications should be           
  submitted to the local Bureau of Indian Affairs agency or regional office listed in

  Appendix IV of the Catalog.

Award Procedure:

                                                                                      
  The dollar value of the awards depends upon the amount that has been                
  prioritized by the individual Indian tribe through tribal participation in the      
  Bureau of Indian Affairs Tribal Priority Allocation budget formulation process.     
Deadlines:                                                                            
  None.                                                                               
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Applications will be processed within 90 days.                                      
Appeals:                                                                              
  An unsuccessful applicant may request an informal conference with the deciding      
  official, or may appeal the denial of the application to the Interior Board of      
  Indian Appeals, or may bring suit in U.S. District Court. Full appeal procedures    
  are found in 25 CFR Part 900.                                                       
Renewals:                                                                             
  Awards may be renewed indefinitely upon satisfactory performance by the             
  contractor/grantee. A notice of intent to renew should be submitted at least 90     
  days prior to the expiration of the current award. The amount of the award may      
  be adjusted as a result of individual tribal priorities established in the budget   
  formulation process.                                                                
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  None.                                                                               
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Awards are made on an annual basis and the funds remain available until             
  expended by the contractor/grantee. Payments may be made in advance or by           
  way of reimbursement. The timing of the payments will be negotiated with the        
  Indian tribe.                                                                       
Reports:                                                                              
  Financial status reports, SF 269A, are required. Program accomplishment             
  reporting requirements will be negotiated with the Self-Determination               
  contractor/grantee.                                                                 
Audits:                                                                               
  For awards made under this program grantees/contractors are responsible for         
  obtaining audits in accordance with the Single Audit Act Amendments of 1996         
  (31 U.S.C. 7501 et seq.).                                                           
Records:                                                                              
  Financial records must be retained for 3 years from the date of submission of the   
  single audit report. Procurement records must be retained for 3 years from the      
  date of final payment. Property records must be retained for 3 years from the       
  date of disposition, replacement, or transfer. Records pertaining to any            
  litigation, audit exceptions or claims must be retained until the dispute has been  
                                                                                      


378                                                                             11-08

  resolved.
Account Identification:
  14-2100-0-1-452.
Obligations:
  (Total amount of awards) FY 07 $21,032,000; FY 08 est $21,690,000; and FY
  09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $10,000 to $4,800,000; $100,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  On an annual basis Indian tribes provide a range of social services in order to
  strengthen American Indian families and American Indian communities.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  25 CFR Part 900; OMB Circular A-87, "Cost Principles for State, Local, and
  Indian Tribal Governments;" and 25 CFR Part 20.
Regional or Local Office:
  Applications may be filed with the local Bureau of Indian Affairs agency or
  regional office as listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.
Headquarters Office:
  Chief, Division of Human Services, Bureau of Indian Affairs, 1849 C Street,
  NW, MS 320 SIB, Washington, DC 20240. Telephone: (202) 513-7642. Use
  the same number for FTS.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.doi.gov/bia/childw-2.htm; http://www.doi.gov/bureau-indian-
  affairs.html.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  15.113, Indian Social Services_Welfare Assistance; 15.144, Indian Child
  Welfare Act_Title II Grants.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  These funds support staff who process applications for assistance, handle
  referrals and provide counseling and intensive case management; or who are
  responsible for collecting, compiling, and reporting monthly statistics regarding
  child abuse and neglect, child welfare placements, and general assistance
  caseloads.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  All applicants meeting the requirements of 25 CFR Part 900 will be selected if
  the program has been prioritized by the individual Indian tribe through tribal
  participation in the Bureau of Indian Affairs' Tribal Priority Allocation budget
  formulation process.
15.026 INDIAN ADULT EDUCATION
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Snyder Act of 1921, Public Law 67-85, 25 U.S.C. 13; Indian Self-Determination
  and Education Assistance Act, Public Law 93-638, as amended.
OBJECTIVES:
  To improve the educational opportunities for Indian adults who lack the level of
  literacy skills necessary for effective citizenship and productive employment and
  to encourage the establishment of adult education programs.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  All funds must be for direct services. Funds may not be used for administration.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments and members of American
  Indian Tribes.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Initial application must be accompanied by a resolution of the governing body of
  the Indian tribe.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The applicant should consult the Agency/Area Program Administrator for
  Education. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Initial applications must contain the information specified in 25 CFR Part 900,
  Subpart C, "Contract Proposal Contents." Completed applications should be
  submitted to the local BIA agency or area office listed in Appendix IV of the
  Catalog.
Award Procedure:
  The dollar value of the awards depends upon the amount that has been
  prioritized by the individual Tribe through tribal participation in the BIA's
  budget formulation process.
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Applications will be processed within 90 days.
Appeals:
  An unsuccessful applicant may request an informal conference with the deciding
  official, or may appeal the denial of the application to the Interior Board of
