  Funds are used to administer tribal revolving loan programs and guaranty loan     
  programs in order to develop resources to improve access to capital in tribal     
  economies. Final approval of loan guarantees is restricted to the Bureau of       
  Indian Affairs. Funds can also be used by Federally Recognized Indian tribal      
  Governments to develop essential tribal ordinances and commercial business        
  codes which provide the necessary separation and exercise of sovereign            
  immunity between business activities and tribal regulatory activities to promote  
  a pro-business environment.                                                       
Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments.                                   
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                            
  Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments and their members.                 
Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  Initial application for financial assistance must be accompanied by a resolution  
  of the governing body of the Indian tribe.                                        
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                    
Application Procedure:                                                              
  Initial applications to administer the program must contain the information       
  specified in 25 CFR, Part 900, Subpart C, "Contract Proposal Contents."           
  Completed applications should be submitted to the local Bureau of Indian          
  Affairs agency office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog. In some instances,    
  the application will be forwarded to the Regional Director for approval.          
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  In most cases, the application to administer the program can be approved at the   
  agency level. In some instances, the application will be forwarded to the         
  Regional Director for approval.                                                   
Deadlines:

  None.

Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

                                                                                    
  Applications will be processed within 90 days.                                    
Appeals:                                                                            
  A Federally Recognized Tribal Government or Native American Organization          
  whose request to administer the program is denied may request an informal         
  conference with the deciding official, or may appeal the denial of the application
  to the Interior Board of Indian Appeals, or may bring suit in U.S. District Court.
  Full appeal procedures are found in 25 CFR, Part 900.                             
Renewals:                                                                           
  Renewals may be granted indefinitely upon satisfactory performance by the         
  contractor/grantee. A notice of intent to renew should be submitted at least 90   
  days prior to the expiration of the current award. Some awards under this         
  program may be one-time grants for a specific purpose and may not be subject to   
  renewal.                                                                          
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  None.                                                                             
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  Awards are made on an annual basis and the funds remain available until           
  expended by the contractor/grantee. Payments may be made in advance or by         
  way of reimbursement. The timing of payments will be negotiated with the          
  contractor/grantee.                                                               
Reports:                                                                            
  Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments and Native American                
  Organizations administering the program must submit financial status reports,     
  SF 269A. The timing and nature of program accomplishment data will be             
  negotiated with the contractor/grantee.                                           
Audits:                                                                             
  Grantees and subgrantees are responsible for obtaining audits in accordance with  
  the Single Audit Act Amendments of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501 et. seq.).                
Records:                                                                            
  Financial records must be retained for 3 years from the date of submission of the 
  single audit report. Procurement records must be retained for 3 years from the    
  date of final payment. Property records must be retained for 3 years from the     
  date of disposition, replacement, or transfer. Records pertaining to any          
  litigation, audit exceptions or claims must be retained until the dispute has been
  resolved.                                                                         
Account Identification:                                                             
  14-2100-0-1-452.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  (Total Amount of Awards) FY 07 $1,940,530; FY 08 est $1,477,230; and FY 09        
  est not available.                                                                
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  $5,000 to $300,000; $215,000.                                                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  Several Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments administer programs        
  that monitor the status of existing loans made to its members and collect on      
  loans made by re- lending programs and credit associations. The programs that     
  may be administered include: guaranteed loans from the Loan Guaranty and          
  Insurance Fund, Direct Loans, and grants from the Indian Business Development     
  Program and Community and Economic Development Program. Some of the               
  programs listed may not be open for new applications. The programs also           


                                                                               11-08
  provide assistance to American Indian owned businesses and individual
  American Indians in obtaining financing from private sources.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  25 Part 900; OMB Circular A-87, "Cost Principles for State, Local, and Indian
  Tribal Governments."
Regional or Local Office:
  Applications may be filed with the local Bureau of Indian Affairs agency office
  as listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.
Headquarters Office:
  Deputy Assistant Secretary - Policy and Economic Development, Office of the
  Assistant Secretary - Indian Affairs, 1849 C Street, N.W., MS-4071 MIB,
  Washington, DC 20240. Mike Lugar; Telephone: (202) 219-0005.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.doi.gov/bia/ecodev/index.htm; http://www.doi.gov.bureau-indian-
  affairs.html.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  11.300, Investments for Public Works and Economic Development Facilities;
  15.124, Indian Loans_Economic Development.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  A Commercial Center Expansion in New Mexico creating/retaining 25 jobs. A
  combined dental office and social services center in the Washington which
  created 20 new jobs.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Proposals to administer an economic development program are evaluated on the
  capability of the prospective applicant to successfully conduct the program and
  on budget and its effective use. All applicants meeting the criteria in 25 CFR
  Part 900 will be funded.
15.033 ROAD MAINTENANCE-INDIAN ROADS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Federal Highway Act of 1921, as amended, Public Law 70-520, 45 Stat. 750, 25
  U.S.C. 318(a); Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, Public
  Law 93-638, as amended, 25 U.S.C. 450.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide limited routine maintenance on paved, gravel, earth, and unimproved
  roads; bridges; and airstrips.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  These funds are used to repair and maintain public roads serving Indian
  reservations, with particular emphasis on school bus routes and arterial
  highways; for snow removal, ice control, washout repair, and landslide removal;
  for replacement, rehabilitation, or maintenance of the 745 bridges on Indian
  reservation roads; for operation and maintenance of a ferry across Lake
  Roosevelt serving the Colville Indian Reservation; and for the maintenance of
  public airstrips located on Indian reservations which are not maintained by other
  governmental entities. Access to these funds is restricted to tribes with
  qualifying road miles or other facilities required to be maintained by this
  program.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments and Native American
  Organizations authorized by Tribal governments which have jurisdiction over
  roads or other facilities that qualify for this program.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments and individual American
  Indians.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Initial application must be accompanied by a resolution of the governing body of
  the Indian tribe.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Tribes must submit a needs request to have roads or facilities added to the
  system being maintained under this program. An informal preapplication
  conference is recommended. Technical assistance in preparing the application is
  available upon request. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O.
  12372.
Application Procedure:
  Initial applications must contain the information specified in 25 CFR, Part 900,
  Subpart C, "Contract Proposal Contents." Completed applications should be
  submitted to the local Bureau of Indian Affairs agency office listed in Appendix
  IV of the Catalog.
Award Procedure:
  The dollar value of the awards depends upon the amount that has been
  prioritized by the individual Tribe through tribal participation in the BIA's
  budget formulation process.
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
                                                                                  383
