  Applications will be processed within 90 days.                                      
Appeals:                                                                              
  An unsuccessful applicant may request an informal conference with the deciding      
  official or may appeal the denial of the application directly to the Interior Board 
  of Indian Appeals, or may bring suit in U.S. District Court. Full appeal            
  procedures are found in 25 CFR, Part 900.                                           
Renewals:                                                                             
  Awards may be renewed indefinitely upon satisfactory performance by the             
  contractor/grantee. A notice of intent to renew should be submitted at least 90     
  days prior to the expiration of the current award. The amount of the award may      
  be adjusted as a result of individual tribal priorities established in the budget   
  formulation process.                                                                
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  None.                                                                               
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Awards are made on an annual basis and the funds remain available until             
  expended by the contractor/grantee. Payments may be made in advance or by           
  way of reimbursement. The timing of payments will be negotiated with the            
  grantee.                                                                            
Reports:                                                                              
  Financial status reports, SF 269A, are required. The timing and nature of           
  program accomplishment data will be negotiated with the contractor/grantee.         
Audits:                                                                               
  For awards made under this program, grantees/contractors are responsible for        
  obtaining audits in accordance with the Single Audit Act Amendments of 1996         
  (31 U.S.C. 7501 et. seq.).                                                          
Records:                                                                              
  Financial records must be retained for 3 years from the date of submission of the   
  single audit report. Procurement records must be retained for 3 years from the      
  date of final payment. Property records must be retained for 3 years from the       
  date of disposition, replacement, or transfer. Records pertaining to any            
  litigation, audit exceptions or claims must be retained until the dispute has been  
  resolved.                                                                           
Account Identification:                                                               
  14-2100-0-1-452.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Total Amount of Awards) FY 07 $7,442,550; FY 08 est $7,014,870; and FY 09          
  est not available.                                                                  
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  $300 to $500,000; $100,000.                                                         
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  Approximately 50,000 miles of roads, 745 bridges, a ferry, and numerous             
  airstrips are operated and/or maintained under this program.                        
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  25 CFR 170.                                                                         
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Applications may be filed with the local Bureau of Indian Affairs' agency office    
  as listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.                                            
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Office of Trust Responsibilities Tribal Services, Division of Transportation,       
  Bureau of Indian Affairs, 1849 C Street NW, MS-4058 MIB, Washington, DC             
  20240. Contact: LeRoy Gishi. Telephone: (202) 208-4359.                             
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.doi.gov/bia/otrhome.htm; http://www.doi.gov/bureau-indian-               
  affairs.html.                                                                       
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Projects are funded in the areas of Routine Maintenance and Administration          
  which maintains public roads serving Indian reservations; Emergency                 
  Maintenance which provides for snow removal, ice control, washout repair and        
  landslide removal; Bridge Maintenance which inspects and maintains 745              
  bridges on Indian reservations; Ferry Boat Operation and Maintenance which          
  operates and maintains a ferry across Lake Roosevelt serving the Colville Indian    
  Reservation; and Airstrip Maintenance which provides maintenance services for       
  public airstrips located on Indian reservations.                                    
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  All applicants meeting the criteria in 25 CFR Part 900 will be funded.              
                                                                                      
15.034 AGRICULTURE ON INDIAN LANDS                                                    
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR                                
AUTHORIZATION:

                                                                                      
  Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, Public Law 93-638, as

                                                                                      
  amended, 25 U.S.C. 450; American Indian Agriculture Resource Management

                                                                                      
  Act, Public Law 103-177, 107 Stat. 2011, 25 U.S.C. 3701.

                                                                                      
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To protect and restore the agricultural (cropland and rangeland) resources on       
  trust lands and facilitate the development of renewable agricultural resources.     
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:

384                                                                             11-08

  Direct Payments for Specified Use; Advisory Services and Counseling;
  Provision of Specialized Services.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds are used to support inventory, analysis, management, and improvement of
  Indian agricultural lands; to administer authorized use of Indian agricultural
  lands; and to support efforts to control noxious weeds and other invasive species
  on Indian lands.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Native American individuals, tribal governments and native organizations
  authorized by tribal governments, and individuals and entities authorized to
  make use of Indian agricultural lands and resources.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Native American landowners, Indian tribes and their members, native
  organizations authorized by tribal governments, and individuals and entities
  authorized to make use of Indian agricultural lands and resources.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Must have a landownership, tribal government, or authorized-user interest in the
  Indian agricultural land or resource that is the basis of assistance request.
Preapplication Coordination:
  For Public Law 93-638 requests, coordination recommended before a
  submission of request for noxious weed control funding. Pre-application
  coordination not needed for individual advisory services and counseling or
  provision of specialized service requests. This program is excluded from
  coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  For Public Law 93-638 requests, awards of noxious weed control funding are
  made by the Central Office of the BIA. Individual advisory services and
  counseling, and provision of specialized services are handled at the Agency,
  Region, or Central Office level as appropriate.
Award Procedure:
  In most cases, the award can be approved at the agency level. In some instances,
  the application will be forwarded to the Regional Director for approval. The
  dollar value of Agriculture awards depends upon the amount that has been
  prioritized by the individual tribe through tribal participation in the BIA's budget
  formulation process (TPA).
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  For Public Law 93-638 requests applications will be processed within 90 days.
Appeals:
  For Public Law 93-638 requests an unsuccessful applicant may request an
  informal conference with the deciding official, or may appeal the denial of the
  application to the Interior Board of Indian Appeals, or may bring suit in U.S.
  District Court. Full appeal procedures are found in 25 CFR, Part 900.
Renewals:
  For Public Law 93-638 requests agriculture awards may be renewed indefinitely
  upon satisfactory performance by the contractor/grantee. A notice of intent to
  renew should be submitted at least 90 days prior to the expiration of the current
  award. Noxious Weed Eradication assistance is awarded for projects on a year-
  by-year basis and is not intended to provide perennial support for tribal
  programs.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Noxious Weed Eradication requires a minimum 50 percent cost-share agreement
  for the control projects.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  For Public Law 93-638 requests noxious weed control funding is awarded
  annually and must be obligated by the second year.
Reports:
  Financial status reports, SF 269A, are required. The timing and nature of
  program accomplishment data will be negotiated with the contractor/grantee.
Audits:
  For awards made under Public Law 93-638 awards, grantees and subgrantees are
  responsible for obtaining audits. All non-Federal entities that expend $500,000
  or more of Federal awards in a year ($300,000 for fiscal year ending on or before
  December 30, 2003) are required to obtain an annual audit in accordance with
  the Single Audit Act Amendments of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501 et. seq.) and OMB
  Circular A-133. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except
  as noted in Circular A-133.
Records:
  Financial records must be retained for 3 years from the date of submission of the
  single audit report. Procurement records must be retained for 3 years from the
  date of final payment. Property records must be retained for 3 years from the
  date of disposition, replacement, or transfer. Records pertaining to any litigation,
  audit exceptions, or claims must be retained until the dispute has been resolved.
Account Identification:
  14-2100-0-1-302.
Obligations:
  (Total Amount of Awards) Agriculture: FY 07 $3,337,950; FY 08 est
  $3,504,600; and FY 09 est not available. Noxious Weed Eradication: FY 07
