  agency office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.                                 
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Awards are made by the Deputy Bureau Director, Office of Trust Services,            
  Central Office, based on the prioritization of all applications received through a  
  thorough evaluation and scoring by a six-person review team. Awards are             
  usually made shortly after the review team has completed its reviews of all         
  proposals received in Central Office by the due date of September 15th. Any         
  awards are subject to the availability of the congressional appropriations for the  
  new fiscal year.                                                                    
Deadlines:                                                                            
  As published in the Federal Register Notice, all applications must be submitted     
  through the Regional Director of the BIA region with jurisdiction to the Deputy     
  Bureau Director, Office of Trust Services, Bureau of Indian Affairs, by             
  September 15th for funding consideration the following fiscal year.                 
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  No set times.                                                                       
Appeals:                                                                              
  No appeal process. The Water Programs funds are annual, non-recurring               
  congressional appropriations and any awards made on the basis of the published      
  prioritization process and the availability of funds.

Renewals:

  Funds are appropriated for use in non-recurring projects/activities on a year-to-   
  year basis and are not intended to provide perennial support for tribal programs.   
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Applications are evaluated and scored based on weighted criteria that have a        
  maximum scoring range of 100 points (congressional and court mandates               
  automatically score 100). No matching requirement, however, applications with       
  available matching funds may score higher.                                          
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Awards are made on an annual basis and the funds remain available until             
  expended by the contractor/grantee.                                                 
Reports:                                                                              
  Financial status reports, SF 269A, are required. Water program funds awarded to     
  tribes through Public Law 93-638, as amended, are subject to the requirements       
  of the Act and 25 CFR Part 900.                                                     
Audits:                                                                               
  For awards made under this program, grantees/contractors are responsible for        
  obtaining audits. All nonfederal entities that expend $500,000 or more of           
  Federal awards in a year ($300,000 for fiscal year ending on or before December     
  30, 2003) are required to obtain an annual audit in accordance with the Single      
  Audit Act Amendments of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501 et. seq.) and OMB Circular A-          
  133, the OMB Circular Compliance Supplement and Government Auditing                 
  Standards. Non-Federal entities that expend less than $500,000 (for fiscal years    
  ending after December 1, 2003) a year in Federal awards are exempt from             
  Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in OMB Circular A-        
  133.                                                                                
Records:                                                                              
  Financial records must be retained for 3 years from the date of submission of the   
  single audit report. Procurement records must be retained for 3 years from the      
  date of final payment. Property records must be retained for 3 years from the       
  date of disposition, replacement, or transfer. Records pertaining to any litigation,
  audit exceptions, or claims must be retained until the dispute has been resolved.   
Account Identification:                                                               
  14-2100-0-1-302.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Total Amount of Awards) FY 07 $4,094,495; FY 08 est $3,846,150; and FY 09          
  est $3,850,000.                                                                     
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  $10,000 to $200,000.                                                                
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  Annually, approximately 25 to 40 percent of the requests for Water                  
  Management, Planning, and Pre-development financial assistance are at least         
  partially funded.                                                                   
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Notice of Revised Instructions for Preparing and Prioritizing Water Program         
  Funding Requests, Federal Register, Vol. 70, No. 201, Wednesday, October 19,        
  2005.                                                                               
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Applications may be filed with the local Bureau of Indian Affairs' agency office    
  as listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.                                            
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Office of Trust Responsibilities, Division of Water and Land Resources, Bureau      
  of Indian Affairs, 1849 C Street N.W., MS 4650 MIB, Washington, DC 20240.           
  Contact: Division Chief, Telephone: (202)208-3956.                                  
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Projects include hydrologic studies of groundwater supply, groundwater              


                                                                                 11-08
  modeling, quantitative and qualitative monitoring and analysis of ground and
  surface water, acquifer investigations, stream gaging; comprehensive water
  management plans, etc., and also participation in tribal water rights
  negotiations/litigation.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Water Management, Planning, and Pre-development proposals are evaluated
  according to the type of proposal (as published in the Federal Register Notice,
  Vol. 70, No. 201, October 19, 2005): Water Management - Indian Water and
  Associated Resources; Water Management -
  Coordination/Cooperation/Consultation/Conservation; Water Management -
  Other; Water Planning and Pre-development - Indian Water; and Water Planning
  and Pre-development - Other: In addition, all proposals are evaluated on the
  basis of: Cost Effectiveness, Compliance with Requesting Guidelines; and
  Efficiency and Accomplishment. Projects are funded based on rankings of the
  projects Bureau wide, and in accordance with the national program priorities
  established for the program. Some preference is given to proposals that offer
  matching funds. Proposals are evaluated on the capability of the prospective
  applicant to successfully conduct the project, and on the budget and its effective
  use.
15.038 MINERALS AND MINING ON INDIAN LANDS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  ASSISTANT SECRETARY - INDIAN AFFAIRS, DEPARTMENT OF THE
  INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, Public Law 93-638, as
  amended, 25 U.S.C. 450; Snyder Act of 1921, Public Law 67-85, 42 Stat. 208,
  25 U.S.C. 13; Indian Minerals Development Act, Public Law 97-382, 98 Stat.
  1938, 25 U.S.C. 2101 et seq.; Umatilla Basin Project Act, Public Law 101-557,
  16 U.S.C. 1271 et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  The objectives of the Energy and Mineral Development Program are to: (1)
  provide funds to Tribes to perform technical evaluations of the energy (both
  renewable and conventional) and mineral resource potential of Indian
  reservations; (2) provide Tribes with geological, geophysical and engineering
  reports, maps, and other data concerning their energy and mineral resources; (3)
  provide Tribes technical assistance on using and interpreting assessment
  information so that Tribes can understand and plan for the potential
  development of these resources; and (4) provide Tribes with an outreach vehicle
  to promote their lands and resources to potential partners if they so desire.
  Those projects that fell into economic development categories will be considered
  for funding through the Office of Indian Energy and Economic Development.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments for Specified Use; Provision of Specialized Services;
  Dissemination of Technical Information.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Minerals and Mining: Funding may be used to facilitate the inventory,
  assessment, promotion and marketing of both renewable and nonrenewable
  energy and mineral resources on Indian lands. Energy and Mineral Assessments:
  Funds are awarded competitively to support assessment and inventory programs
  and/or develop baseline data, but cannot be used for development purposes.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Federally Recognized Indian Tribes and Individual American Indian mineral
  owners.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments and their members, Native
  American Organizations, and/or individual American Indian mineral property
  owners.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Minerals and Mining: Initial application for assistance must be accompanied by
  a resolution of the governing body of the Indian tribe. Mineral Assessments
  Proposals must include: (1) a current tribal resolution authorizing the proposed
  project; (2) a proposal describing the proposed activities and the planned
  deliverable products; (3) a detailed budget estimate; and 4) a review by the BIA
  Agency Superintendent verifying that the work to be performed occurs on trust
  or restricted fee lands (the Superintendent will notify DEMD in writing if that is
  not case).
Preapplication Coordination:
  Informal preapplication conference is recommended. Technical assistance in
  preparing the application is available upon request. This program is excluded
  from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Initial applications for financial assistance must contain the information
  specified in 25 CFR, Part 900, Subpart C, "Contract Proposal Contents."
  Completed applications for Minerals and Mining should be submitted to the
  Division of Energy and Mineral Development office in Lakewood, Colorado and
  to the local BIA agency office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.
Award Procedure:
  Mineral and Mining/Mineral Assessments. Proposals are paneled by the Office
                                                                                   387
