  of Indian Energy and Economic Development. Funds are awarded according to            
  the order of ranking of the proposals, although some elements of the budget may      
  not be fully funded due to the Division's own ability to perform some tasks at       
  lower costs.                                                                         
Deadlines:                                                                             
  Energy and Mineral Assessments: Proposals are usually submitted within 90            
  days of the original solicitation, usually occurring in December, although this      
  may vary due to the appropriations process.                                          
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Mineral Assessments: Within 120 days after the solicitation period.                  
Appeals:                                                                               
  An unsuccessful applicant may request an informal conference with the deciding       
  official, or may appeal the denial of the application to the Interior Board of       
  Indian Appeals, or may bring suit in U.S. District Court. Full appeal procedures

  are found in 25 CFR, Part 900.

Renewals:

                                                                                       
  Minerals and Mining/Mining Assessment: A notice of intent to renew should be         
  submitted at least 90 days prior to the expiration of the current award.             
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  Consideration in the final ranking score is given to proposal's that include         
  contribution by the Tribe. The contribution can be either monetary or staff time     
  of Tribal employees devoted to the project.                                          
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Awards are made on an annual basis and the funds remain available until              
  expended by the contractor/grantee. Payments may be made in advance or by            
  way of reimbursement. The timing of payments is negotiated with the grantee.         
Reports:                                                                               
  Financial status reports, SF 269A, are required. The timing and nature of            
  program accomplishment data will be negotiated with the contractor/grantee.          
  Technical reports describing project outcomes are defined as deliverables in an      
  Energy and Mineral Development award and the data generated must be                  
  presented in a compatible computer format as specified by the Division of            
  Energy and Mineral Development.                                                      
Audits:                                                                                
  For awards made under this program, grantees and subgrantees are responsible         
  for obtaining audits. All non-Federal entities that expend $500,000 or more of       
  Federal awards in a year ($300,000 for fiscal year ending on or before December      
  30, 2003) are required to obtain an annual audit in accordance with the Single       
  Audit Act Amendments of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501 et seq.), OMB Circular A-133,           
  the OMB Circular Compliance Supplement and Government Auditing                       
  Standards. Non-Federal entities that expend less than $500,000 (for fiscal years     
  ending after December 1, 2003) a year in Federal awards are exempt from              
  Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in OMB Circular A-         
  133.                                                                                 
Records:                                                                               
  Financial records must be retained for 3 years from the date of submission of the    
  single audit report. Procurement records must be retained for 3 years from the       
  date of final payment. Property records must be retained for 3 years from the        
  date of disposition, replacement, or transfer. Records pertaining to any litigation, 
  audit exceptions, or claims must be retained until the dispute has been resolved.    
  For Mineral Assessment awards, one paper copy of all data (field data, processed     
  data, analyses, assays, etc.) must be submitted at completion of contract.           
Account Identification:                                                                
  14-2100-0-1-302.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  (Grants) FY 07 $1,224,840; FY 08 est $1,000,000; and FY 09 est $1,000,000.           
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  Minerals and Mining: Currently not contracted by any of the tribal governments.      
   Mineral Assessments: $25,000 to $150,000; $75,000.                                  
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  Minerals and Mining facilitates over $400 million in annual minerals income to       
  tribes and allottees. Between 25 and 50 Tribes request Energy and Mineral            
  Development projects annually; generally 10 to 20 projects are funded.               
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  25 CFR, Part 900 and Subchapter I - Energy and Minerals.                             
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  Applications may be filed with the local Bureau of Indian Affairs' agency office     
  as listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.                                             
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Assistant Secretary - Indian Affairs, Division of Energy and Mineral                 
  Development, 12136 W. Bayaud Ave., Suite 300, Lakewood, CO 80228.                    
  Contact: Steve Manydeeds. Telephone: (303) 969-5270, Ext. 225.                       
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.doi.gov/bia/otrhome.htm#Energy; http://www.doi.gov/bureau-                
  indian-affairs.html.                                                                 
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  15.222, Cooperative Inspection Agreements with States and Tribes; 15.252,            
  Abandoned Mine Land Reclamation (AMLR) Program.                                      
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  Projects support the development of energy (both renewable and conventional)         


388                                                                              11-08

  and mineral resources on Indian lands through assessment studies, economic
  analysis and market studies, developing strategies for leasing feasibility studies
  and mining plans, establishing terms for exploration agreements, environmental
  reviews, and training. Mineral Assessments include seismic exploration,
  inventories of existing geophysical and geological data, development of an oil
  and gas resource database and mapping system, and evaluation and assessment
  of mineral resources.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Energy and Mineral Assessments: Proposals are evaluated according to technical
  merits of the mandatory elements of the proposal. Additionally, selection criteria
  for ranking contain six criteria: (1) Resource Potential; (2) Commodity
  Marketability; (3) Economic Benefit, (4) Willingness to Develop; (5) Tribal
  Commitment; and (6) Additional funding or participation from other entities.
15.040 REAL ESTATE PROGRAMS-INDIAN LANDS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, Public Law 93-638, as
  amended, 25 U.S.C. 450; 60 Stat. 1097, 25 U.S.C. 176; Indian Land
  Consolidation Act; Act of March 3, 1901; Act of March 3, 1921; Reorganization
  Plan No. 3, 1946; Public Law 56-382, 31 Stat. 1084, 25 U.S.C. 311; Public Law
  66-359, 41 Stat. 1232, 25 U.S.C. 393; Public Law 97-459, 96 Stat. 2515, 25
  U.S.C. 2201 et seq.; Public Law 98-608, 98 Stat. 3171; Public Law 102-238.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide real property management, counseling, and land use planning
  services to individual Indian allottees and Indian tribal and Alaska Native
  entities who own an interest in almost 56 million acres of trust land; to provide
  real estate appraisal services required in processing land transactions, and to
  protect and enhance the Indian leasehold estate by providing individual Indian
  landowners and Indian tribes with lease compliance activities.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Real Estate Services: decision-making processes are developed through
  cooperative efforts with the Indian landowners for the proper utilization,
  development, and enhancement of Indian trust lands. Real Estate Appraisals are
  one element in trust land transactions and are restricted to American Indians who
  have an ownership interest in property held in trust by the Federal government.
  Lease Compliance: program resources are used to ensure that leases on trust and
  restricted Indian lands and their assignees comply with the terms of the leases.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments, Native American
  Organizations authorized by tribes, and individual American Indians.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments and their members.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Initial application must be accompanied by a resolution of the governing body of
  the Indian tribe. For real estate appraisals, documented ownership interest in
  property held in trust is required.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Informal preapplication conference is recommended. Technical assistance in
  preparing the application is available upon request. This program is excluded
  from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Initial applications for real estate services and lease compliance must contain the
  information specified in 25 CFR, Part 900, Subpart C, "Contract Proposal
  Contents." Completed applications should be submitted to the local Bureau of
  Indian Affairs agency office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog. Requests for
  real estate appraisals should be submitted to the local Bureau of Indian Affairs
  agency office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog along with documentation of
  ownership interest in the property.
Award Procedure:
  For Real Estate Services and Real Estate Appraisals, the dollar value of the
  awards depends upon the amount that has been prioritized by the individual
  Tribe through tribal participation in the BIA's budget formulation process. For
  Lease Compliance, funding is distributed to the Area offices on the basis of
  number of existing leases and the number of inspections planned for the year.
  For Lease Compliance awards, in some cases, the award can be approved at the
  agency level. In most instances, the application will be forwarded to the Area
  Director for approval.
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Applications will be processed within 90 days.
Appeals:
  An unsuccessful applicant may request an informal conference with the deciding
  official or may appeal the denial of the application directly to the Interior Board
  of Indian Appeals, or may bring suit in U.S. District Court. Full appeal
