Regional or Local Office:                                                          
  See Education Line Officers' addresses in Appendix IV of the Catalog.            
Headquarters Office:                                                               
  Office of Indian Education Programs, Bureau of Indian Affairs, MS 3609 MIB,      
  1849 C Street, N.W., Washington, DC 20240. Contact: Joe Herrin. Telephone:       
  (202) 208-7658. Use the same number for FTS.                                     
Web Site Address:                                                                  
  http://www.oiep.bia.edu/; http://www.doi.gov/bureau-indian-affairs.html.         
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                  
  15.043, Indian Child and Family Education; 15.044, Indian Schools_Student        
  Transportation; 15.045, Assistance for Indian Children with Severe Disabilities. 
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                       
  ISEP funds are used to provide basic education and residential programs to       
  Indian students not served by public or sectarian schools.                       
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                  
  Applicants meeting eligibility criteria are funded.                              
                                                                                   
15.043 INDIAN CHILD AND FAMILY EDUCATION                                           
                                                                                   
   (FACE)                                                                          
                                                                                   
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                    
  BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                     
  Indian Education Amendments of 1978, Public Law 95-561, 25 U.S.C. 2001 et        
  seq.                                                                             
OBJECTIVES:                                                                        
  To begin educating children at an early age through parental involvement, to     
  increase high school graduation rates among Indian parents, and to encourage     
  life-long learning.                                                              
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                               
  Project Grants; Training.                                                        
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                         
  Funds must be used for early childhood education, adult education and parenting  
  skills. Funds may not be used for administration.                                
Applicant Eligibility:                                                             
  Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments and tribal organizations          
  authorized by Indian tribal governments on reservations with Bureau-funded       
  elementary schools may apply to administer the program.                          
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                           
  Parents and their Indian children under 5 years of age who live on a reservation 
  with a Bureau-funded school.                                                     
Credentials/Documentation:                                                         
  The initial application must be accompanied by a resolution of the tribal        
  governing body of the Tribe of the children served by or to be served by the     
  organization. No documentation is required of the parents or children.           
Preapplication Coordination:                                                       
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.

Application Procedure:

  The Tribe should contact the Area/Agency Administrator for Education             
  Programs.                                                                        
Award Procedure:

  Once an application is received, the Coordinator of the FACE program appoints    
  a panel of readers from such organizations as the Indian Health Service, the     
  Department of Education and others who are familiar with early childhood         
  development. The panel reads, rates and ranks the applications. The coordinator  
  then recommends to the Director, Office of Indian Education Programs, those      
  applications for approval.                                                       
Deadlines:                                                                         
  Applications should be submitted no later than June 1 of the year in which the   
  applicant wishes to begin the program.                                           
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                
  Applications by Tribal governments to administer the program will be processed   
  within 90 days.                                                                  
Appeals:                                                                           
  Tribal Governments wishing to appeal should write to the Director, Office of     
  Indian Education Programs. Appeals beyond this level are covered by 25 CFR       
  Part 2.                                                                          
Renewals:                                                                          
  Awards to Tribal Governments to administer the program may be renewed every      
  3 years based upon satisfactory performance. A notice of intent to renew should  
  be submitted yearly and a full application must be submitted every 3 years.      
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                 
  None.                                                                            
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                             
  Awards are made on an annual basis based on satisfactory performance, and the    
  funds remain available until expended by the contractor/grantee.                 
Reports:                                                                           
  Monthly progress reports, annual participation data, screening, Work Sampling,   
  and other program data requested is required.                                    
Audits:                                                                            
                                                                              11-08
  For awards made under this program, grantees/contractors are responsible for
  obtaining audits. All nonfederal entities that expend $500,000 or more of
  Federal awards in a year ($300,000 for fiscal year ending on or before December
  30, 2003) are required to obtain an annual audit in accordance with the Single
  Audit Act Amendments of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501 et. seq.) and OMB Circular A-
  133, the OMB Circular Compliance Supplement and Government Auditing
  Standards. Non-Federal entities that expend less than $500,000 (for fiscal years
  ending after December 1, 2003) a year in Federal awards are exempt from
  Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in OMB Circular A-
  133.
Records:
  Financial records must be retained for 3 years from the date of submission of the
  single audit report. Procurement records must be retained for 3 years from the
  date of final payment. Property records must be retained for 3 years from the
  date of disposition, replacement, or transfer. Records pertaining to any litigation,
  audit exceptions or claims must be retained until the dispute has been resolved.
Account Identification:
  14-2100-0-1-501.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $4,565,000; FY 08 est. $5,683,000; and FY 09 est. $4,641,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Each site receives $220,000 to $250,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Annually, over 1,800 children and 1,800 adults from 1,700 families receive
  services.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  A copy of the guidelines may be obtained by contacting the Area/Agency
  Education Program Administrators.
Regional or Local Office:
  See Education Line Officers' addresses in Appendix IV of the Catalog.
Headquarters Office:
  Office of Indian Education Programs, Bureau of Indian Affairs, Office of the
  Deputy Director, Early Childhood, BIA Building 2, 1011 Indian School Road,
  N.W., 3rd Floor, Suite 332, Albuquerque, NM 87104. Contact: Debbie Lente-
  Jojola. Telephone: (505) 563-5258. Use the same number for FTS.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.oiep.bia.edu/sirc.htm; http://www.doi.gov/bureau-indian-
  affairs.html.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  The sites provide such services as parenting skills, adult education and early
  childhood education in an effort to increase student achievement.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Proposals are selected based on the review of the team appointed by the
  Coordinator. Final determination made by the Director, OIEP, based on the
  Coordinator's recommendation.
15.044 INDIAN SCHOOLS-STUDENT TRANSPORTATION
   (Student Transportation)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, Public Law 93-638, as
  amended, 25 U.S.C. 450 et seq.; Indian Education Amendments of 1978, Public
  Law 95-561, 25 U.S.C. 2001 et seq.; Tribally Controlled Schools Act, 25 U.S.C.
  2501 et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide funds to each school for the round trip transportation of students
  between home and the school site.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds are to be used only for the transportation of students who are eligible
  under the Indian School Equalization Program (ISEP) as provided for under 25
  CFR 39 and are enrolled in a Bureau funded school or dormitory.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Federally Recognized Indian Tribes or tribal organizations currently served by a
  Bureau of Indian Affairs funded school.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Children between the ages of 5 and 21 who are members of or are at least a one-
  fourth degree Indian blood descendant of a member of an Indian tribe which is
  eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States
  through the Bureau of Indian Affairs to Indians because of their status as
  Indians.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Written evidence of approval of the application by the tribal governing body of
  the students served by or to be served by the school. "Tribal governing body"
  means the tribal governing body or tribal governing bodies that represent at least
                                                                                     391
