  Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments and occupants and visitors of        
  BIA funded elementary or secondary schools or peripheral dormitories.               
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Initial application must be accompanied by a resolution of the governing body of    
  the Indian tribe. If the school serves students from multiple tribes, resolutions   
  from tribal governing bodies representing at least 90 percent of the students are   
  required.                                                                           
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  An applicant should consult the Agency/Regional Education Program                   
  Administrator who will provide technical assistance. This program is excluded       
  from coverage under E.O. 12372.                                                     
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Initial applications for status as a contract school must contain the information   
  specified in 25 CFR, Part 900, Subpart C, "Contract Proposal Contents." Initial     
  applications for status as a grant school should be developed in accordance with    
  25 U.S.C. 2501 et seq.                                                              
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Applications should be submitted to the Agency/Regional Education Program

  Administrator (EPA) who will ensure that the application is complete. The           
  application is forwarded by the EPA to the Director, Office of Indian Education

  Programs, with a recommendation for approval or disapproval. The dollar value

                                                                                      
  of the awards is based upon school age and condition, size, utilities costs, and    
  other pertinent factors.                                                            
Deadlines:                                                                            
  First-time applications should be submitted by March 1.                             
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Applications will be processed within 90 to 180 days.                               
Appeals:                                                                              
  An unsuccessful applicant may request an informal conference with the deciding      
  official, or may appeal the denial of the application to the Interior Board of      
  Indian Appeals, or may bring suit in U.S. District Court. Full appeal procedures    
  are found in 25 CFR Part 900.                                                       
Renewals:                                                                             
  Awards may be renewed indefinitely upon satisfactory performance by the             
  contractor/grantee and continued use of the facilities. A notice of intent to renew 
  should be submitted at least 90 days prior to the expiration of the current award.  
  The amount of the award may be adjusted based on appropriations and need.           
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  None.                                                                               
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Awards are made on an annual basis and the funds remain available until             
  expended by the contractor/grantee. Payments may be made in advance or by           
  way of reimbursement. The timing of the payments will be negotiated with the        
  Indian tribe.                                                                       
Reports:                                                                              
  Financial status reports, SF 269A, are required. Program accomplishment             
  reporting requirements will be negotiated with the contractor/grantee.              
Audits:                                                                               
  For awards made under this program, grantees/contractors are responsible for        
  obtaining audits. All nonfederal entities that expend $500,000 or more of           
  Federal awards in a year ($300,000 for fiscal year ending on or before December     
  30, 2003) are required to obtain an annual audit in accordance with the Single      
  Audit Act Admendments of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501 et. seq.) and OMB Circular            
  A-133 Compliance Supplement and Government Auditing Standards.                      
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 (for fiscal years ending after   
  December 1, 2003) a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit            
  requirements for that year, except as noted in OMB Circular A-133.                  
Records:                                                                              
  Financial records must be retained for 3 years from the date of submission of the   
  single audit report. Procurement records must be retained for 3 years from the      
  date of final payment. Property records must be retained for 3 years from the       
  date of disposition, replacement, or transfer. Records pertaining to any            
  litigation, audit exceptions or claims must be retained until the dispute has been  
  resolved.                                                                           
Account Identification:                                                               
  14-2100-0-1-501.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Grants) FY 07 Operations $32,600,000 Maintenance $27,400,000; FY 08 est            
  Operations $33,000,000 Maintenance $26,800,000; and FY 09 est Operations            
  $33,000,000 Maintenance $26,800,000.                                                
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  $9,600 to $1,326,000; $360,000.                                                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  Almost 100 elementary and secondary schools on or near Indian reservations are      
  operated by Indian tribes or Tribal School Boards. These funds help ensure that     
  the facilities used to educate these students are safe, clean, and well maintained. 
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  25 CFR Part 900; OMB Circular A-87, "Cost Principles for State, Local, and          
  Indian Tribal Governments."                                                         
Regional or Local Office:                                                             


394                                                                             11-08

  Applications may be filed with the local Bureau of Indian Affairs
  agency/regional education program administrator as listed in Appendix IV of the
  Catalog.
Headquarters Office:
  Office of Indian Education Programs, Bureau of Indian Affairs, MS 3609 MIB,
  1849 C Street, N.W., Washington, DC 20240. Contact: Joe Herrin. Telephone:
  (202) 208-7658. FTS is not available.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.oiep.bia.edu/; http://www.doi.gov/bureau-indian-affairs.html.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  15.042, Indian School Equalization Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  All applicants meeting the requirements of 25 CFR Part 900 or the requirements
  of the Tribally Controlled Schools Act will be selected if they are currently
  served by a BIA-funded school.
15.048 BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS FACILITIES-
OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, Public Law 93-638, as
  amended, 25 U.S.C. 450.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide funds for basic operating services to Bureau-owned or Bureau-
  operated non-education facilities and to maintain these facilities in a safe
  operating condition for the conduct of Bureau programs.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds may be used for essential services for non-education physical plant and
  utility systems throughout the Bureau. The Operation and Maintenance may be
  used for personnel services, supplies, materials, equipment and support for
  planning, reporting and managing the operations and resources of the
  organization as well as heating, cooling, electricity, water, sewage, refuse
  disposal, basic telecommunications equipment, unscheduled and preventive
  maintenance, GSA vehicle rental, lease agreements, and custodial and protection
  services.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments who have Bureau-owned or
  Bureau-operated facilities on their reservation.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments and occupants and visitors of
  Bureau-owned or Bureau-operated facilities.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Initial application must be accompanied by a resolution of the governing body of
  the Indian tribe.
Preapplication Coordination:
  An informal conference with the Bureau of Indian Affairs agency representative
  is recommended. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Initial applications must contain the information specified in 25 CFR Part 900,
  Subpart C "Contract Proposal Contents." Completed applications should be
  submitted to the local Bureau agency or regional office listed in Appendix IV of
  the Catalog.
Award Procedure:
  The dollar value of the award depends upon the amount that would otherwise be
  spent for the program through direct services provided by the Bureau. Operation
  and Maintenance is based upon age and condition, size, utilities costs, and other
  pertinent factors of the facility.
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Applications will be processed within 90 days.
Appeals:
  An unsuccessful applicant may request an informal conference with the deciding
  official, or may appeal the denial of the application to the Interior Board of
  Indian Appeals, or may bring suit in U.S. District Court. Full appeal procedures
  are found in 25 CFR Part 900.
Renewals:
  Awards may be renewed indefinitely upon satisfactory performance by the
  contractor/grantee and continued use of the facilities. A notice of intent to renew
  should be submitted at least 90 days prior to the expiration of the current award.
  The amount of the award may be adjusted based on appropriations and need.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
