  208-5831.                                                                           
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.doi.gov/bureau-indian-affairs.html.                                      
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  15.040, Real Estate Programs_Indian Lands; 15.036, Indian Rights Protection.        
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  For the Native allotment program, tribal realty offices assist Alaska Native        
  applicants in acquiring title to lands they occupy. For the subsistence preference  
  program, projects are awarded to study past subsistence uses and conduct            
  population studies on subsistence resources.                                        
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  If a tribe has allotment cases pending and operates a realty office, they will be   
  allotted a portion of the funds available based on the number of pending cases.     
  Proposals for funding of subsistence preference projects are evaluated on the       
  basis of the degree to which the work addresses subsistence issues and the          
  potential for affecting the largest number of Alaska Natives.                       
                                                                                      
15.057 NAVAJO-HOPI INDIAN SETTLEMENT PROGRAM                                          
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR                                
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Public Law 93-531, 25 U.S.C. 640 et seq.; Navajo-Hopi Settlement Act; Public        
  Law 102-180, 105 Stat. 1230; Indian Self-Determination and Education                
  Assistance Act, Public Law 93-638, as amended, 25 U.S.C. 450.                       
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To implement those provisions of the Navajo-Hopi Settlement Act of 1974, as         
  amended, which are assigned to the Department of the Interior; and to institute     
  conservation practices and methods to restore the grazing potential of rangelands   
  lying within the former Navajo/Hopi Joint Use Area.                                 
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Direct Payments for Specified Use; Provision of Specialized Services.               
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Use is restricted to approved projects within the Navajo/Hopi Joint Use Area.       
  Funds will be used for restoration of rangeland within the former Navajo/Hopi       
  Joint Use Area (JUA). This includes livestock monitoring on the JUA, issuance       
  of grazing permits, implementation of range management plans and grazing            
  control methods, establishment of range units and grazing capacity, and removal     
  of trespass livestock on the Hopi Partitioned Lands; initiation of grazing control  
  on the Navajo Partitioned Lands; and natural resources restoration on the           
  affected lands.                                                                     
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments of the Navajo and Hopi Tribes        
  and Native American Organizations authorized by either Tribe.                       
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments of the Navajo and Hopi Tribes        
  and individual members of both Tribes.                                              
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Initial application must be accompanied by a resolution of the governing body of    
  the Indian tribe.

Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  Informal preapplication conference is recommended. Technical assistance in

  preparing the application is available upon request. This program is excluded       
  from coverage under E.O. 12372.                                                     
Application Procedure:

  Initial applications must contain the information specified in 25 CFR, Part 900,    
  Subpart C, "Contract Proposal Contents." Completed applications should be           
  submitted to the Hopi Agency or the Navajo or Western Regional Office of the        
  Bureau of Indian Affairs at the address listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.       
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  In most cases, the award can be approved at the agency level. In some instances,    
  the application will be forwarded to the Regional Director for approval.            
Deadlines:                                                                            
  None.                                                                               
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Applications will be processed within 90 days.                                      
Appeals:                                                                              
  An unsuccessful applicant may request an informal conference with the deciding      
  official or may appeal the denial of the application directly to the Interior Board 
  of Indian Appeals, or may bring suit in U.S. District Court. Full appeal            
  procedures are found in 25 CFR, Part 900.                                           
Renewals:                                                                             
  Annual application required.                                                        
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  By agreement, 40 percent of the funds are used on Hopi Partitioned Lands and        
  60 percent are used on Navajo Partitioned Lands.                                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Awards are made on an annual basis and the funds remain available until             
  expended by the contractor/grantee. Payments may be made in advance or by           
  way of reimbursement. The timing of payments will be negotiated with the            
  grantee.                                                                            


398                                                                             11-08

Reports:
  Financial status reports, SF 269A, are required. The timing and nature of
  program accomplishment data will be negotiated with the contractor/grantee.
Audits:
  For awards made under this Program, grantees/contractors are responsible for
  obtaining audits in accordance with the Single Audit Act Amendments of 1996
  (31 U.S.C. 7501 et. seq.).
Records:
  Financial records must be retained for three years from the date of submission of
  the single audit report. Procurement records must be retained for three years
  from the date of final payment. Property records must be retained for three years
  from the date of disposition, replacement, or transfer. Records pertaining to any
  litigation, audit exceptions or claims must be retained until the dispute has been
  resolved.
Account Identification:
  14-2100-0-1-452.
Obligations:
  (Total Amount of Awards) FY 07 $229,600; FY 08 est $239,200; and FY 09 est
  not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $5,000 to $150,000; $75,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Ongoing activities to accomplish the goal of rangeland restoration within the
  former Joint Use Area include livestock monitoring, issuance of grazing permits,
  implementation of range management plans and grazing control methods,
  establishment of range units and grazing capacity. Program activities on the
  Hopi Partitioned Lands include range, woodlands and wildlife restoration of
  910,021 acres and maintenance on 630 miles of fencing and 123 stock water
  facilities.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  25 CFR 161, 166, and 168.
Regional or Local Office:
  Applications may be filed with the Hopi Agency or the Navajo or Western
  Regional Office of the Bureau of Indian Affairs at the address listed in Appendix
  IV of the Catalog.
Headquarters Office:
  Office of Trust Responsibilities, Bureau of Indian Affairs, 1849 C Street N.W.,
  MS-3061 MIB, Washington, DC 20240. Contact: David Edington. Telephone:
  (202)513-0886.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.doi.gov/bureau-indian-affairs.html.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Projects are funded in the areas of windmill maintenance, boundary fence
  maintenance, erosion control measures, and re-seeding.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Proposals are selected on the basis of the need and urgency of the proposed
  work.
15.058 INDIAN POST SECONDARY SCHOOLS
   Haskell Indian Nations University (Haskell) and Southwestern
  Indian Polytechnic Institute (SIPI)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Snyder Act of 1921 Public Law 67-85, 25 U.S.C. 13.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide postsecondary educational opportunities for American Indian
  Students.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Training.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Students may attend one of two post-secondary schools operated by the Bureau
  of Indian Affairs with minimal charge for tuition, room and board. Married
  student housing is not available on campus.
Applicant Eligibility:
  A member of a Federally Recognized Indian tribe.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  American Indians.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Application must be accompanied by a verification of Tribal affiliation.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Interested applicants may obtain a Standard Form 5-6621 from a local
  Area/Agency education program office or Tribal Government education office,
  or applicants may contact the schools directly.
Award Procedure:
