  Public Law 88-230, 77 Stat. 471, 25 U.S.C. 309; Indian Self-Determination and      
  Education Assistance Act, Public Law 93-638, as amended, 25 U.S.C. 450.            
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To provide vocational training to individual American Indians through the          
  United Tribes Technical College, located in Bismarck, North Dakota.                
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Training; Direct Payments with Unrestricted Use.                                   
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Financial aid is used to assist individual Indians to obtain a marketable skill    
  through vocational training at the United Tribes Technical College, located in     
  Bismarck, North Dakota. Restricted to American Indian people who are               
  determined eligible for these services.                                            
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Application to administer the program is limited to the United Tribes Technical    
  College. Individual American Indian applicants must be a member of a Federally     
  Recognized Indian Tribe, be in need of financial assistance, and reside on or      
  near an Indian reservation under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Indian Affairs. 
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Individual American Indians who are members of a Federally Recognized Indian       
  Tribe and reside on or near an Indian reservation under the jurisdiction of the    
  Bureau of Indian Affairs. Complete information on beneficiary eligibility is       
  found in 25 CFR, Parts 26 and 27.                                                  
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Applicant must submit a certificate signed by a Bureau Agency Superintendent       
  or an authorized Tribal representative that indicates the applicant is an enrolled 
  member or registered with a Federally Recognized Indian Tribe.                     
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                     
Application Procedure:                                                               
  The application by the United Tribes Technical College to administer the           
  program must contain the information specified in 25 CFR, Part 900, Subpart C,     
  "Contract Proposal Contents." The completed application should be submitted to     
  the Bureau of Indian Affairs' Aberdeen Regional Office. Individual American        
  Indian applicants should apply for program services using the application form     
  designated by the College. Individual application forms may be obtained directly   
  from the United Tribes Technical College or from Bureau of Indian Affairs          
  Agency or Regional Offices listed in appendix IV of the Catalog.                   
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Applications for individual subsistence benefits are approved by the designated    
  United Tribes Technical College official.                                          
Deadlines:                                                                           
  None.                                                                              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

  1 to 90 days.

Appeals:

                                                                                     
  Disputes between the United Tribes Technical College and the Bureau of Indian      
  Affairs may be appealed through an informal conference with the deciding           
  official, may be appealed to the Interior Board of Indian Appeals, or may bring

  suit in U.S. District Court. Full appeal procedures are found in 25 CFR, Part      
  900. An appeal of a college official's decision must be made under the college's   
  appeal procedures.                                                                 
Renewals:                                                                            
  Awards to the United Tribes Technical College to administer the program may        
  be renewed indefinitely upon satisfactory performance by the college and the       
  availability of appropriations. A notice of intent to renew should be submitted at 
  least 90 days prior to the expiration of the current award. Renewals of grants to  
  individual beneficiaries are granted based on evidence of satisfactory             
  performance and the availability of funds.                                         
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  None.                                                                              
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Awards to the United Tribes Technical College to administer the program are        
  made on an annual basis and the funds remain available until expended by the       
  college. Payments may be made in advance or by way of reimbursement. The           
  timing of payments will be negotiated with the college. Grants to individual       
  beneficiaries for subsistence are released monthly or quarterly, based upon        
  individual needs. Vocational and employment counseling are provided by the         
  college. Funding is limited in duration to the length of the vocational program,   
  which varies by area of study.                                                     
Reports:                                                                             
  The United Tribes Technical College must submit financial status reports, SF       
  269A. The timing and nature of program accomplishment data will be                 
  negotiated with the College.                                                       
Audits:                                                                              
  For awards administered by the United Tribes Technical College, the College is     
  responsible for obtaining audits in accordance with the Single Audit Act           
  Amendments of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501 et. seq.).                                      
Records:                                                                             
  The United Tribes Technical College must retain financial records for three        
  years from the date of submission of the single audit report. Procurement records  


400                                                                            11-08

  must be retained for three years from the date of final payment. Property records
  must be retained for three years from the date of disposition, replacement, or
  transfer. Records pertaining to any litigation audit exceptions or claims must be
  retained until the dispute has been resolved.
Account Identification:
  14-2100-0-1-452.
Obligations:
  (Total Amount of Awards) FY 07 not available; FY 08 est $4,000; and FY 09 est
  not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $500 to $3,000; $2,500.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  The United Tribes Technical College offers 23 vocational certificates and
  degrees. They have approximately 160 new students each year.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  25 CFR 26 and 25 CFR 27. For awards to United Tribes Technical College see
  also 25 CFR Part 900.
Regional or Local Office:
  Applications may be obtained from the local Bureau of Indian Affairs agency
  office as listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog or with the United Tribes
  Technical College. For direct contact: United Tribes Technical College, 3315
  University Dr., Bismarck, North Dakota 58504. Contact: Vivian Gillette,
  Admissions. Telephone: (701) 255-3285, ext. 334.
Headquarters Office:
  Office of Self-Governance and Self-Determination, Division of Job Placement
  and Training, Bureau of Indian Affairs, 1849 C Street, NW, MS 2542 MIB,
  Washington, DC 20240. Contact: Lynn Forcia. Telephone: (202) 219-5270.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.united-tribes.tec.nd.us/; http://www.doi.gov/bureau-indian-
  affairs.html.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  17.250, Job Training Partnership Act; 15.114, Indian Education_Higher
  Education Grant Program; 15.850, Indian Arts and Crafts Development; 15.108,
  Indian Employment Assistance; 15.061, Indian Job Placement_United Sioux
  Tribes Development Corporation.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  On average about 80 percent of attendees are place in jobs upon completion of a
  vocation certificate program and about 20 percent continue on to higher
  education.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Final determination to fund an application is based on the individual's eligibility
  and financial need and total dollars available to the College.
15.061 INDIAN JOB PLACEMENT-UNITED SIOUX TRIBES
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
   (United Sioux Tribes)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Snyder Act of 1921, Public Law 67-85; 42 Stat. 208; 25 U.S.C. 13; Indian Adult
  Vocational Training Act of 1956; Public Law 84-959; 70 Stat. 986, as amended;
  Public Law 88-230; 77 Stat. 471; 25 U.S.C. 309; Indian Self-Determination and
  Education Assistance Act; Public Law 93-638; as amended; 25 U.S.C. 450.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide job development, counseling, social adjustment guidance, and
  referrals to job training programs and other assistance programs through the
  United Sioux Tribes Development Corporation, located in Pierre, South Dakota.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments with Unrestricted Use; Advisory Services and Counseling.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Financial aid is used to assist individual Indians in finding permanent
  employment. A weekly or monthly (depending on type of services received)
  stipend is paid until the participant is employed. Upon receiving employment,
  assistance may be provided until the first full paycheck is received.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Application to administer the program is limited to the United Sioux Tribes
  Development Corporation. Individual American Indian applicants must be a
  member of a Federally Recognized Indian Tribe, be in need of financial
  assistance, and reside on or near an Indian reservation under the jurisdiction of
  the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Must be an American Indian member of a Federally Recognized Indian Tribe
  and reside on or near an Indian reservation under the jurisdiction of the Bureau
  of Indian Affairs. Complete information on beneficiary eligibility is found in 25
  CFR, Parts 26 and 27.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicant must submit a certificate signed by a Bureau Agency Superintendent
  or an authorized Tribal representative that indicates the applicant is an enrolled
