  member of a Federally Recognized Indian Tribe.                                    
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                    
Application Procedure:                                                              
  The application by the United Sioux Tribes Development Corporation to             
  administer the program must contain the information specified in 25 CFR, Part     
  900, Subpart C, "Contract Proposal Contents." The completed application           
  should be submitted to the Bureau of Indian Affairs Aberdeen Regional office.     
  Individual American Indian applicant should apply for program services using      
  the application form designated by the Corporation. Individual application

  forms may be obtained directly from the Corporation.

                                                                                    
Award Procedure:

  Applications for individual benefits are approved by the designated United        
  Sioux Tribes Development Corporation official.                                    
Deadlines:                                                                          
  None.                                                                             
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  1 to 90 days.                                                                     
Appeals:                                                                            
  Disputes between the United Sioux Tribes Development Corporation and the          
  Bureau of Indian Affairs may be appealed through an informal conference with      
  the deciding official, may be appealed to the Interior Board of Indian Appeals, or
  the corporation may bring suit in U.S. District Court. Full appeal procedures are 
  found in 25 CFR, Part 900. An appeal of the corporate official's decision must    
  be made under the corporation's appeal procedures.                                
Renewals:                                                                           
  Awards to the United Sioux Tribes Development Corporation to administer the       
  program may be renewed indefinitely upon satisfactory performance by the          
  corporation and the availability of appropriated funds. A notice of intent to     
  renew should be submitted at least 90 days prior to the expiration of the current 
  award. Individual renewals are based on the availability of funds, but the job    
  placement service may not be used more than three times or more frequently        
  than every two years.                                                             
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  None.                                                                             
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  Awards to the United Sioux Tribes Development Corporation to administer the       
  program are made on an annual basis and the funds remain available until          
  expended. Payments may be made in advance or by reimbursement. Payments           
  to individual beneficiaries for subsistence, support services, uniforms, etc., are
  released as required by beneficiary, up to the amount of the award. Assistance    
  for job placement is provided until the beneficiary receives their first full     
  paycheck.                                                                         
Reports:                                                                            
  The United Sioux Tribes Development Corporation must submit financial status      
  reports, SF 269A. The timing and nature of program accomplishment data will       
  be negotiated with the Corporation.                                               
Audits:                                                                             
  For awards administered by the United Sioux Tribes Development Corporation,       
  the Corporation is responsible for obtaining audits in accordance with the Single 
  Audit Act Amendments of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501 et seq.).                            
Records:                                                                            
  The United Sioux Tribes Development Corporation must retain financial records     
  for three years from the date of submission of the single audit report.           
  Procurement records must be retained for three years from the date of final       
  payment. Property records must be retained for three years from the date of       
  disposition, replacement, or transfer. Records pertaining to any litigation, audit
  exceptions or claims must be retained until the dispute has been resolved.        
Account Identification:                                                             
  14-2100-0-1-452.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  (Total Amount of Awards) FY 07 not available; FY 08 est not available             
  (program not funded); and FY 09 est not available.                                
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  $500 to $1,200; $1,000.

                                                                                    
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  Less than 30 percent of the funds provided to the Corporation are used for

                                                                                    
  administrative purposes.

                                                                                    
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

                                                                                    
  25 CFR 900, 25 CFR 26, and 25 CFR 27.

                                                                                    
Regional or Local Office:

  United Sioux Tribes Development Corporation, 1830 Lombardy Drive, Rapid           
  City, South Dakota, 57701. Contact: Ken Lock; Telephone: (605) 226-7426.          
                                                                                    
Headquarters Office:

  Office of Economic Development, Division of Job Placement and Training,           
  Bureau of Indian Affairs, 1849 C Street, NW., MS-2412 MIB, Washington, DC         
  20240. Contact: Lynn Forcia. Telephone: (202) 219-5270.                           
                                                                                    
Web Site Address:

  http://www.doi.gov.                                                               
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
                                                                                    


                                                                               11-08
  15.108, Indian Employment Assistance; 17.251, Native American Employment
  and Training Programs.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  An unemployed husband and wife with two children were placed as a handyman
  in a garage and a housekeeper in a hotel, respectively.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Applications are received for direct employment participants. Final
  determination to fund an application is based on the individual's eligibility and
  financial need and total dollars available to the Corporation.
15.062 REPLACEMENT AND REPAIR OF INDIAN
SCHOOLS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, Public Law 93-638, 25
  U.S.C. 450 et seq., as amended, Title IV; Tribal Self-Governance Act of 1994,
  Public Law 103-413; Tribally Controlled Schools Act of 1988, as amended,
  Public Law 100-297, 25 U.S.C. 2501 et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide safe, functional, code-compliant, economical, and energy-efficient
  education facilities for American Indian students attending Bureau of Indian
  Affairs owned or funded primary and secondary schools and/or residing in
  Bureau owned or funded dormitories.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Replacement School Construction: Funds are provided for advanced planning,
  design, and construction of major expansions or major replacements of Bureau
  of Indian Affairs owned or funded education facilities for the direct support of
  primary and secondary schools and/or dormitories. An education facility may
  include an entire school facility or building, or a component(s) of a school
  facility or building, such as, classrooms, multi-purpose rooms or gymnasiums, or
  cafeteria/kitchens; and may include other improvements to real property such as,
  water storage tanks, water and sewer distribution lines, parking lots, and other
  site improvements. School facilities are replaced only in those instances where
  rehabilitation and upgrading are not feasible because of eligible American Indian
  student capacity needs, functional changes or costs. Facilities Improvement and
  Repair: Funds are provided for advanced planning, design, and construction for
  facilities improvement and repair of education facilities for the direct support of
  primary and secondary schools and/or dormitories and the Bureau's two post
  secondary schools. Funds are used to improve, repair and rehabilitate facilities
  and in some instances replace components of education facilities and may
  include other improvements to real property as noted under Replacement School
  Construction.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments and Tribal Organizations,
  including School Boards, who have a prioritized Replacement School
  Construction or Facilities Improvement and Repair project for which funds have
  been appropriated.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  American Indian children attending Bureau owned or funded primary and
  secondary schools and/or American Indian children residing in Bureau owned or
  funded dormitories.
Credentials/Documentation:
  An initial application must be accompanied by a copy of the authorizing
  resolution from the Federal Recognized Indian Tribal Government to be served.
  If a currently effective authorizing resolution covering the scope of a project has
  already been provided, a reference to that resolution.
Preapplication Coordination:
  An informal conference with Bureau agency representatives is strongly
  recommended to determine the application and award procedures to be followed.
   This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applications must be filed in accordance with 25 CFR Part 900 "Contracts
  under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act," 43 CFR
  Part 12, Subpart C "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and
  Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments," or the Tribally
  Controlled Schools Act of 1988, as amended, 25 U.S.C. 2501 et seq., as
  applicable.
Award Procedure:
  Projects are prioritized before the funds are appropriated. Funds must be
  appropriated before the award can be made. The award is made in accordance
  with the procedures contained in 25 CFR Part 900 "Contracts under the Indian
  Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act," 43 CFR Part 12, Subpart C
  "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements
  to State and Local Governments," or the Tribally Controlled Schools Act of
  1988, as amended, 25 U.S.C. 2501 et seq., as applicable.
Deadlines:
                                                                                   401
