  Applications must be submitted in accordance with applicable procedures.             
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Applications will be processed within 90 days or as provided under applicable        
  procedures.                                                                          
Appeals:                                                                               
  An unsuccessful applicant may request an informal conference with the deciding       
  official, or may appeal the denial of the application to the Interior Board of       
  Indian Appeals, or may bring suit in U.S. District Court. Full appeal procedures     
  are found in 25 CFR Part 900.                                                        
Renewals:                                                                              
  Depending upon the size and complexity of the construction project, it may take      
  several increments of funding assistance to complete the project. The initial        
  award is issued as a new contract/grant, with second and subsequent funding          
  increments issued as renewals to existing contracts/grants.                          
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  None.                                                                                
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Funds remain available until expended in accordance with terms of the award.         
Reports:                                                                               
  Financial status reports, SF 269A, are required. Program progress reporting          
  requirements will be negotiated with the Self-Determination contractor/grantee.      
Audits:                                                                                
  For awards made under this program grantees/contractors are responsible for          
  obtaining audits in accordance with the Single Audit Act Amendments of 1996          
  (31 U.S.C. 7501 et seq.).                                                            
Records:                                                                               
  Financial records must be retained for 3 years from the date of submission of the    
  single audit report. Procurement records must be retained for 3 years from the       
  date of final payment. Property records must be retained for 3 years from the        
  date of disposition, replacement, or transfer. Records pertaining to any             
  litigation, audit exceptions or claims must be retained until the dispute has been   
  resolved.                                                                            
Account Identification:                                                                
  14-2301-0-1-452.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  Replacement School Construction: FY 07 $73,824,080; FY 08 est $13,037,200;           
  and FY 09 est not available. Facilities Improvement and Repair: FY 07                
  $48,876,070; FY 08 est $56,092,020; and FY 09 est not available.

Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

  Replacement School Construction: The amount of financial assistance can              
  range from approximately $6 million to $25 million depending on the size of the      
  school, both grade level and student enrollment, the program requirements, and

  the location. For the higher amounts, funding may be incremental over 2, 3, or       
  even 5 years. Because of the limited number of schools that have received            
                                                                                       
  funding in the last few years and the increasing costs for construction, there is no

                                                                                       
  way to determine a true representative "average" of financial assistance for this

                                                                                       
  program. Facilities Improvement and Repair: The amount of financial assistance

                                                                                       
  can range significantly from a few thousand dollars to approximately $7 million.

                                                                                       
   There are several categories of projects that are included under Facilities

                                                                                       
  Improvement and Repair, such as, Emergency, Roofing Replacement/Repair,

                                                                                       
  Portable Classrooms. The average amount of financial assistance can vary

                                                                                       
  depending on the category.

                                                                                       
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  Replacement School Construction: A grades 9 through 12 junior/senior high            
  school in Arizona and a grades pre-K through 8 in Iowa were recently                 
  completed. Facilities Improvement and Repair: Funds are used to address              
  environmental projects, AHERA requirements, minor repairs, emergency                 
  repairs, major repair/replacement projects and safety and health and other code      
  deficiencies.                                                                        
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  25 CFR Part 900 "Contracts under the Indian Self-Determination and Education         
  Assistance Act," 43 CFR Part 12, Subpart C "Uniform Administrative                   
  Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local                
  Governments," or the Tribally Controlled Schools Act of 1988, as amended, 25         
  U.S.C. 2501 et seq., as applicable; OMB Circulars No. A-87, "Cost Principles         
  for State, Local, and Indian Tribal Governments," A-122, "Cost Principles for        
  Non-Profit Organizations," A-21, "Cost Principles for Educational Institutions,"     
  as applicable; and Bureau of Indian Affairs Manual, Chapter 25, Supplements          
  18 and 19; Bureau of Indian Affairs Education Space Guidelines.                      
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  Applications may be filed with the local Bureau of Indian Affairs agency or          
  regional office as listed in Appendix IV.                                            
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Director, Office of Facilities Management and Construction, Bureau of Indian         
  Affairs, 201 Third Street, NW., Suite 500, P. O. Box 1248, Albuquerque, NM           
  87103. Telephone: (505) 346-6522. Use the same number of FTS.                        
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.doi.gov/bia/ofmc/cm.htm; http://www.doi.gov/bureau-indian-                
  affairs.html.                                                                        
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      


402                                                                              11-08

  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Replacement School Construction: A pre-Kindergarten through Grade 12 school
  complex was funded in the State of Washington. Because of the size of the
  project, funds were appropriated in increments for this project. In recent years
  funds have been provided to build elementary and middle schools in North
  Dakota, New Mexico, and Mississippi, a high school in South Dakota and a
  library in Mississippi. Facilities Improvement and Repair: The emphasis of this
  program is minor replacement construction, major and minor repairs, and
  emergency projects to remedy life safety and health related deficiencies in
  facilities. Examples of projects include: boiler repair and replacement; roofing
  repair and replacement of gymnasium; removal of underground storage tanks;
  installation of fire exit lights, emergency lights, fire rated doors, and other safety
  related items; and replacement of water storage tanks.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Replacement School Construction: Funds are appropriated based on the
  "Education Facilities Replacement Construction Priority List" as published in
  the FEDERAL REGISTER on March 24, 2004. Criteria emphasizes providing
  safe, functional, code-compliant, economical and energy-efficient educational
  facilities that meet applicable accreditation standards and space guidelines.
  Facilities Improvement and Repair: Criteria to evaluate projects emphasize
  eliminating critical health and safety-related deficiencies and reducing the
  substantial backlog of needed improvements and repairs. Potential projects are
  identified by facility users, regional office facilities personnel and the Office of
  Facilities Management and Construction. Facilities Improvement and Repair
  projects are then prioritized on a Bureau-wide basis using a computerized
  formula that evaluates the seriousness of the deficiencies and the relative risks of
  those deficiencies to facility users. To be considered it is essential that
  deficiencies and projects for a Bureau funded school or dormitory be identified
  in the automated inventory of Bureau facilities. In addition there are limited
  funds provided under this program to address safety and health deficiencies on
  an immediate or interim basis as well as funds for emergency repairs under
  certain conditions, and for other purposes. For more information on these other
  programs or on the priority ranking process for Replacement School
  Construction or Facilities Improvement and Repair projects, contact the
  Headquarters Office listed above or the local Bureau of Indian Affairs agency or
  regional office as listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.
15.063 IMPROVEMENT AND REPAIR OF INDIAN
DETENTION FACILITIES
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, Public Law 93-638, 25
  U.S.C. 450 et seq., as amended, Title IV; Tribal Self-Governance Act of 1994,
  Public Law 103-413.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide safe, functional, code and standards compliant, economical, and
  energy-efficient adult and/or juvenile detention facilities.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds are provided for advanced planning, design, and construction for facilities
  improvement and repair to Bureau detention facilities (e.g. renovations,
  improvements, demolitions, or additions) when economically justified with
  emphasis on addressing critical health and safety needs identified in Bureau
  safety reports and meeting emergency needs.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments who have a prioritized
  Facilities Improvement and Repair project for a Bureau detention facility for
  which funds have been appropriated.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments.
Credentials/Documentation:
  An initial application must be accompanied by a copy of the authorizing
  resolution from the Federal Recognized Indian Tribal Government to be served.
  If a currently effective authorizing resolution covering the scope of a project has
  already been provided, a reference to that resolution.
Preapplication Coordination:
  An informal conference with BIA agency representatives is recommended. This
  program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applications must be filed in accordance with 25 CFR Part 900 "Contracts
  under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act."
Award Procedure:
  Projects are prioritized before the funds are appropriated. Funds must be
  appropriated before the award can be made. The award is made in accordance
  with the procedures contained in 25 CFR Part 900 "Contracts under the Indian
  Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act."
