Deadlines:                                                                          
  Applications must be submitted in accordance with applicable procedures.          
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  Applications will be processed within 90 days.                                    
Appeals:

  An unsuccessful applicant may request an informal conference with the deciding

  official, or may appeal the denial of the application to the Interior Board of    
  Indian Appeals, or may bring suit in U.S. District Court. Full appeal procedures  
  are found in 25 CFR Part 900.                                                     
Renewals:

  Depending upon the size and complexity of the construction project, it may take   
  several increments of funding assistance to complete the project. The initial     
  award is issued as a new contract/grant, with second and subsequent funding       
  increments issued as renewals to the existing contract/grant.                     
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  None.                                                                             
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  Funds remain available until expended in accordance with the terms of the         
  award.                                                                            
Reports:                                                                            
  Financial status reports, SF 269A, are required. Program progress reporting       
  requirements will be negotiated with the Self-Determination contractor/grantee.   
Audits:                                                                             
  For awards made under this program, grantees/contractors are responsible for      
  obtaining audits in accordance with the Single Audit Act Amendments of 1996,      
  (31 U.S.C. 7501 et seq.).                                                         
Records:                                                                            
  Financial records must be retained for 3 years from the date of submission of the 
  single audit report. Procurement records must be retained for 3 years from the    
  date of final payment. Property records must be retained for 3 years from the     
  date of disposition, replacement, or transfer. Records pertaining to any          
  litigation, audit exceptions or claims must be retained until the dispute has been
  resolved.                                                                         
Account Identification:                                                             
  14-2301-0-1-452.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  (Total Amount of Awards) FY 07 est $7,292,700; FY 08 est $9,999,900; and FY       
  09 est not available.                                                             
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  The amount of financial assistance can range significantly from a few thousand    
  dollars to approximately $1,000,000. Because funding is on a project basis        
  based on the work to be accomplished, an average financial assistance can not     
  be determined.                                                                    
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  Funds are used to address environmental projects, asbestos abatement, minor       
  repairs, emergency repairs, and safety and health and other code deficiencies.    
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  25 CFR, Part 900, Contracts under the Indian Self-Determination and Education     
  Assistance Act; OMB Circular A-87, Cost Principles for State, Local, and Indian   
  Tribal Governments; Bureau of Indian Affairs Manual, Chapter 25, Supplements      
  18 and 19; Indian Affairs Manual, Chapter 40, Law Enforcement and Detention;      
  and BIA's Adult Detention Handbook, Juvenile Detention Handbook, and/or           
  Model Inmate Handbook, as applicable.                                             
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  Bureau of Indian Affairs agency or regional office as listed in Appendix IV.      
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Director, Office of Law Enforcement Services, Bureau of Indian Affairs, P.O.

                                                                                    
  Box 66, Albuquerque, NM 87103. Telephone: (505) 248-7937. Use the same

                                                                                    
  number for FTS; or Director, Office of Facilities Management and Construction,

                                                                                    
  Bureau of Indian Affairs, 201 Third St., NW., Suite 500, P.O. Box 1248,

                                                                                    
  Albuquerque, NM 87103. Telephone: (505) 346-6522. Use the same number for

                                                                                    
  FTS.                                                                              
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  http://www.doi.gov/bia/ofmc/cm.htm#3; http://www.doi.gov.bureau-indian-           
  affairs.html.                                                                     
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  16.596, Correctional Grant Program for Indian Tribes.                             
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  The emphasis of this program is to remedy life safety and health related

                                                                                    
  deficiencies in existing facilities. An emergency stand-by generator to power

                                                                                    
  security systems and enlargement of exercise yard to comply with program

                                                                                    
  requirements were done at a detention facility in Arizona. Another project at a

                                                                                    
  Montana detention facility addressed miscellaneous life safety, handicap, and

                                                                                    
  environmental deficiencies including installation of rest rooms to accommodate

                                                                                    
  the handicapped, new electrical wiring, and asbestos removal. A project at a

                                                                                    
  facility in New Mexico included heating and cooling system improvements, site

                                                                                    
  drainage, and a new back-up generator to power security systems.                  
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                   
  Criteria to evaluate Bureau owned and operated detention facilities for           
  prioritization emphasize eliminating critical health and safety-related           


                                                                               11-08
  deficiencies. For more information on the priority ranking process for Facilities
  Improvement and Repair of Bureau owned and operated detention facilities,
  contact the local Bureau of Indian Affairs agency or regional office as listed in
  Appendix IV of the Catalog or the Headquarters Offices listed above.
15.064 STRUCTURAL FIRE PROTECTION-BUREAU OF
INDIAN AFFAIRS FACILITIES
   (Fire Protection)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, Public Law 93-638, 25
  U.S.C. 450 et seq., as amended, Title IV; Tribal Self-Governance Act of 1994,
  Public Law 103-413; Tribally Controlled Schools Act of 1988, as amended,
  Public Law 100-297, 25 U.S.C. 2501 et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide for the installation of fire protection and prevention equipment in
  schools, dormitories, detention centers and other BIA facilities.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds may be used for training, breathing apparatus equipment; other equipment
  such as hoses; fire trucks; protective clothing for fire personnel; installation of
  fire sprinkles and fire/smoke alarms in schools and dormitories; and support
  other fire protection and preventive measures.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments and Tribal Organizations,
  including School Boards, who have a prioritized Fire Protection project for
  which funds have been appropriated.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Indian children attending Bureau owned or funded primary and secondary
  schools and/or residing in Bureau owned or funded dormitories and occupants
  and visitors of detention centers and other BIA facilities.
Credentials/Documentation:
  An initial application must be accompanied by a copy of the authorizing
  resolution from the Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Government to be
  served. If a currently effective authorizing resolution covering the scope of an
  initial contract proposal has already been provided, a reference to that resolution.
Preapplication Coordination:
  An informal conference with a Bureau agency representative is strongly
  recommended to determine the application and award procedures to be followed.
   This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applications must be filed in accordance with 25 CFR Part 900 "Contracts
  under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act," 43 CFR
  Part 12, Subpart Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and
  Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments," or the Tribally
  Controlled Schools Act of 1988, as amended, 25 U.S.C. 2501 et seq., as
  applicable.
Award Procedure:
  Fire protection projects have been identified and prioritized. Funds must be
  appropriated before the award can be made. The award is made in accordance
  with the procedures contained in 25 CFR Part 900 "Contracts under the Indian
  Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act," 43 CFR Part 12, Subpart C
  "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements
  to State and Local Governments," or the Tribally Controlled Schools Act of
  1988, as amended, 25 U.S.C. 2501 et seq., as applicable.
Deadlines:
  Applications must be submitted in accordance with applicable procedures.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Applications will be processed within 90 days or as provided under applicable
  procedures.
Appeals:
  An unsuccessful applicant may request an informal conference with the deciding
  official, or may appeal the denial of the application to the Interior Board of
  Indian Appeals, or may bring suit in U.S. District Court. Full appeal procedures
  are found in 25 CFR Part 900.
Renewals:
  Awards are for one-time projects. Depending upon the size and complexity of
  the project, it may take a couple of increments of funding assistance to complete
  the project. The initial award is issued as a new contract/grant, with second and
  any subsequent funding increments issued as renewals to existing
  contracts/grants.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Funds remain available until expended in accordance with the terms of the
  award.
                                                                                      403
