  construction projects were completed.                                              
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  25 CFR Part 900; and Department of the Interior Safety of Dams (SOD)               
  Program.                                                                           
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  Applications may be filed with the local Bureau of Indian Affairs agency office    
  as listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.                                           
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Office of Trust Services, Division of Irrigation, Power and Safety of Dams,        
  Bureau of Indian Affairs, 1849 C Street N.W., MS 4655 MIB, Washington, DC          
  20240. Telephone: (202) 208-5480. Contact: Ross Mooney.                            
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  None.                                                                              
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  15.049, Irrigation Operations and Maintenance on Indian Lands.                     
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  Projects commonly encompass three phases of program work: conceptual               
  design, involving engineering studies of construction alternatives; final design,  
  including structural dam design and cost estimation; and construction repair, the  
  physical rehabilitation of existing structures. Also, included are recurring       
  operations and maintenance of the dams, early warning systems and emergency        
  action plans.                                                                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  The relative probability of dam failure (risk-of-failure) is determined from the   
  technical factors used in the SEED report to determine placement on the            
  Department of the Interior's Technical Priority Rating List. This priority list is 
  then used to prioritize budget requests for repair of the Bureau's most unsafe     
  dams. Approximately $22,000,000 of the funds for the Safety of Dams program        
  are distributed in accordance with the Technical Priority Rating listing for       
  Department of the Interior dams.                                                   
                                                                                     
15.108 INDIAN EMPLOYMENT ASSISTANCE                                                  
                                                                                     
   (Employment Assistance Program)                                                   
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR                               
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Snyder Act of 1921, Public Law 67-85, 42 Stat. 208, 25 U.S.C. 13; Indian Adult     
  Vocational Training Act of 1956, Public Law 84-959, 70 Stat. 986, as amended;      
  Public Law 88-230, 77 Stat. 471, 25 U.S.C. 309; Indian Self-Determination and      
  Education Assistance Act, Public Law 93-638, as amended, 25 U.S.C. 450.            
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To provide vocational training and employment opportunities to eligible            
  American Indians and reduce Federal dependence.                                    
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.                                                 
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Financial aid is used to assist individual Indians to obtain a marketable skill    
  through vocational training and to assist those who have a job skill to find       
  permanent employment. Vocational and employment counseling are provided by         
  the program. Eligible American Indians may receive vocational training or job      
  placement on or near the reservation or in an urban Regional.                      
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments and Native American                 
  Organizations authorized by Indian Tribal Governments may apply to administer      
  the program. Individual American Indian applicants must be a member of a           
  Federally Recognized Indian Tribe, be in need of financial assistance, and reside  
  on or near an Indian reservation under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Indian    
  Affairs.                                                                           
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Members of Federally Recognized Indian Tribes who are unemployed,                  
  underemployed, or in need of training to obtain reasonable and satisfactory        
  employment. Complete information on beneficiary eligibility is found in 25         
  CFR, Parts 26 and 27.                                                              
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Applicants must submit a certificate signed by a Bureau Agency Superintendent      
  or an authorized Tribal representative that indicates the applicant is an enrolled 
  member or registered with a Federally Recognized Indian Tribe.                     
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  None.This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                      
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Initial applications by Indian Tribal Governments to administer the program        
  must contain the information specified in 25 CFR, Part 900, Subpart C,             
  "Contract Proposal Contents." Completed applications should be submitted to        
  the local Bureau of Indian Affairs agency office listed in Appendix IV.            
  Individual American Indian applicants should apply for program services on         
  Bureau of Indian Affairs Form BIA-8205 at the nearest Bureau Employment            
  Assistance office or tribal government offices.                                    
Award Procedure:                                                                     


                                                                                11-08
  The dollar value of the awards to Indian Tribal Governments depends upon the
  amount that has been prioritized by the individual Tribe through tribal
  participation in the Bureau of Indian Affairs' Tribal Priority Allocation budget
  formulation process. Applications for individual benefits are approved by the
  Bureau Agency Superintendent or authorized tribal representative.
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Applications by Tribal Governments to administer the program will be processed
  within 90 days. Applications by individuals for benefits will be processed within
  30 days.
Appeals:
  A Tribal Government whose request to administer the program is denied may
  request an informal conference with the deciding official, or may appeal the
  denial of the application to the Interior Board of Indian Appeals, or may bring
  suit in U.S. District Court. Full appeal procedures are found in 25 CFR, Part
  900. An individual may appeal the BIA agency Superintendent's decision to the
  Regional Director. The complete appeal process for an individual is found in 25
  CFR Part 2, "Appeals from Administrative Action." An appeal of a Tribal
  contractor's decision must be made under the Tribe's appeal procedures.
Renewals:
  Awards to Tribal Governments to administer the program may be renewed
  indefinitely upon satisfactory performance by the contractor/grantee. A notice of
  intent to renew should be submitted at least 90 days prior to the expiration of the
  current award. The amount of the award may be adjusted as a result of
  individual tribal priorities established in the budget formulation process.
  Renewals of grants to individual beneficiaries are based on evidence of
  satisfactory performance and the availability of funds.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Awards to Indian Tribal Governments and Native American Organizations to
  administer the program are made on an annual basis and the funds remain
  available until expended by the contractor/grantee. Payments may be made in
  advance or by way of reimbursement. The timing of payments will be negotiated
  with the Tribal Government. Grants to individual beneficiaries for subsistence,
  tuition and related training costs, supportive services, etc., are released as
  required by beneficiary, up to the amount of the award. Assistance for job
  placement is provided until the beneficiary receives the first full paycheck from
  employment. Individual beneficiaries may not receive more than 24 months of
  full-time training, except for Registered Nursing students who may receive 36
  months of training.
Reports:
  Indian Tribal Governments administering the program must submit financial
  status reports, SF 269A. The timing and nature of program accomplishment data
  will be negotiated with the contractor/grantee. Individuals must provide evidence
  of satisfactory progress.
Audits:
  For awards administered by Indian Tribal Governments, the Tribe is responsible
  for obtaining audits in accordance with the Single Audit Act Amendments of
  1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501 et seq.).
Records:
  Indian Tribal Governments administering the program must retain financial
  records for 3 years from the date of submission of the single audit report.
  Procurement records must be retained for 3 years from the date of final payment.
  Property records must be retained for 3 years from the date of disposition,
  replacement, or transfer. Records pertaining to any litigation, audit exceptions or
  claims must be retained until the dispute has been resolved.
Account Identification:
  14-2100-0-1-452.
Obligations:
  (Total Amount of Awards)FY 07 $7,261,840; FY 08 est $6,923,860; and FY 09
  est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  For awards to Indian Tribal Governments: $7,000 to $350,000; $46,000. For
  awards to individual beneficiaries: $200 to $10,000; $5,100.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Approximately 175 awards are made annually to Indian Tribal Governments;
  approximately 1500 individuals receive assistance annually either through Tribal
  programs or as direct grants from the BIA.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  25 CFR 26 and 25 CFR 27. For awards to Indian Tribal Governments see also
  25 CFR Part 900.
Regional or Local Office:
  Applications may be filed with the local Bureau of Indian Affairs agency office
  as listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog or with the Tribal Government
  administering the program.
Headquarters Office:
  Office of Indian Energy and Economic Development, Division of Workforce
  Development, 1951 Constitution Avenue, NW, Mail Stop 20-SIB, Washington
                                                                                   405
