  DC 20245.                                                                            
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.doi.gov/bia/ecodev/index.htm; http://www.doi.gov/bureau-indian-           
  affairs.html.                                                                        
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  15.114, Indian Education_Higher Education Grant Program; 15.850, Indian Arts         
  and Crafts Development.                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  The Southwestern Indian Polytechnic Institute in Albuquerque, New Mexico             
  trains students in ophthalmology and provides job placement upon completion          
  of the program. Adult vocational training subsistence funds are provided to          
  individuals with families who live off campus. One individual received 3 years       
  of nursing training in Phoenix, Arizona and was subsequently employed by a           
  medical center.                                                                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  All Tribes meeting the requirements of 25 CFR Part 900 will be selected if the       
  program has been prioritized by the individual Indian tribe through tribal           
  participation in the Bureau of Indian Affairs' Tribal Priority Allocation budget     
  formulation process. Applications from individuals are received for both             
  vocational training and direct employment participants. Final determination to       
  fund an application is based on the individual's eligibility and financial need and  
  total dollars available to the Tribe or Agency.                                      
                                                                                       
                                                                                       
15.113 INDIAN SOCIAL SERVICES-WELFARE                                                  
ASSISTANCE                                                                             
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                                                                                       
AUTHORIZATION:

                                                                                       
  Snyder Act of 1921, Public Law 67-85, 42 Stat. 208, 25 U.S.C. 13.

                                                                                       
OBJECTIVES:

                                                                                       
  To provide financial assistance for basic needs of needy eligible American

                                                                                       
  Indians who reside on or near reservations, including those American Indians

                                                                                       
  living under Bureau of Indian Affairs service area jurisdictions, when such

                                                                                       
  assistance is not available from State or local public agencies.

                                                                                       
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:

                                                                                       
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.

                                                                                       
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

                                                                                       
  Provides cash payments to eligible American Indian individuals and families to

                                                                                       
  meet basic needs (i.e., food, clothing, shelter, etc.). Provides extra monthly

                                                                                       
  benefits to tribal members on general assistance who also work on tribal projects

                                                                                       
  under the Tribal Work Experience Program. Provides monthly assistance for

                                                                                       
  non-medical institutional or custodial care of adults who are not eligible for care

                                                                                       
  from Indian Health Services, Social Security, or any other county, state or

                                                                                       
  Federal program. Provides foster home care and appropriate institutional (non-

                                                                                       
  medical) care for dependent, neglected, and handicapped American Indian

  children in need of protection. This program also pays the burial expenses of

  indigent American Indians whose estates do not have sufficient resources to          
  meet funeral expenses and provides emergency assistance to prevent hardship          
  caused by fire, flood or acts of nature.

Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  An American Indian who is a member of a federally recognized Indian Tribe,

  who resides on or near a federally recognized Indian reservations, who is in need    
  of financial assistance and who meets the eligibility criteria in 25 CFR Part 20.    
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  American Indians who are members of federally recognized Indian Tribes.              
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Proof of American Indian status, residency, and income/resources available must      
  be provided by applicant.                                                            
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                       
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  A verbal or written request for assistance to the Bureau of Indian Affairs agency    
  or regional representative or designated tribal authority.                           
                                                                                       
Award Procedure:

  Assistance is provided by the Bureau of Indian Affairs agency or regional office     
  or contracted tribal program.                                                        
                                                                                       
Deadlines:

  None.                                                                                
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Generally within 10 days depending upon applicants needs and the extent of           
  investigation required. Decisions will take no longer than 45 days.                  
Appeals:                                                                               
  An unsuccessful applicant may appeal a Bureau of Indian Affairs official's           
  decision under the procedures contained in 25 CFR Part 20, Subpart D                 
  "Hearings and Appeals" and 25 CFR Part 2 "Appeals from Administrative                
  Actions."                                                                            
Renewals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                                
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     


406                                                                              11-08

  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The length of assistance is indefinite, depending on continued need and
  available resources. Assistance is usually provided monthly or as needed.
Reports:
  None.
Audits:
  None.
Records:
  None.
Account Identification:
  14-2100-0-1-452.
Obligations:
  (Total program funds including direct payments) FY 07 $59,332,460; FY 08 est
  $59,332,460; and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  May range from a few hundred to several hundred dollars monthly depending
  upon the assistance provided.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  General assistance is provided to over 41,000 persons on a monthly basis.
  Indian Child Welfare Assistance is provided to an estimated 3,000 children on a
  monthly basis and Non-Medical Institutional or Custodial Care is provided
  monthly to about 1,100 disabled American Indian adults.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  25 CFR 20.
Regional or Local Office:
  Information can be secured from the Agency Superintendents and from Regional
  Directors (see Catalog Appendix IV for addresses). Applications for general
  assistance are made at the local agency or tribal level.
Headquarters Office:
  Deputy Director, Office of Tribal Services, Bureau of Indian Affairs, 1849 C St.,
  NW., MS 320 SIB, Washington, DC 20245. Telephone: (202) 513-7642. Use
  the same number for FTS.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.doi.gov/bia/childw~2.htm; http://www.doi.gov/bureau-indian-
  affairs.html.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Individual financial assistance (welfare) grant to a single American Indian
  person or to an American Indian family of eight based upon public assistance
  standards of the State where recipients reside.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Must be an American Indian residing on or near a reservation as defined in 25
  CFR 20 and must be in need as defined in 25 CFR Part 20. All eligible
  applicants will be funded subject to availability of funds.
15.114 INDIAN EDUCATION-HIGHER EDUCATION
GRANT PROGRAM
   (Higher Education)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Snyder Act of 1921, Public Law 67-85, 42 Stat. 208, 25 U.S.C. 13.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide financial aid to eligible Indian students to enable them to attend
  accredited institutions of higher education.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grant funds are to supplement the total financial aid package prepared by the
  college financial aid officer. Funds are intended to assist students in pursuing
  their undergraduate baccalaureate degree.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments and tribal organizations
  authorized by Indian Tribal Governments may apply to administer the program.
  Individuals who are members of Federally Recognized Indian Tribes may submit
  applications for benefits directly to the Bureau of Indian Affairs if the Bureau
  agency serving their reservation provides direct services for this program.
  Individuals must be enrolled in an accredited college and have financial need as
  determined by the institution's financial aid office.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Members of a Federally Recognized Indian Tribe who are enrolled or accepted
  for enrollment in an accredited college and have financial need as determined by
  the institution's financial aid office.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Initial application by Indian tribes and tribal organizations must be accompanied
  by an authorizing resolution of the governing body of the Indian tribe.
