  Individual student applicants must submit a certificate of Indian blood; college    
  financial aid package; statement of acceptance by college and Bureau of Indian      
  Affairs grant application.                                                          
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  The applicant should consult the Agency/Area Program Administrator for              
  Education. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                 
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Initial applications by Indian tribes and tribal organizations to administer the    
  program must contain the information specified in 25 CFR Part 900, Subpart C,       
  "Contract Proposal Contents." Individual students must be accepted by a college     
  or university and should complete application forms in accordance with              
  instructions available upon request from the Education Line Office, or tribal       
  contractor administering the program. Completed forms are submitted to the          
  student's higher education program office at the appropriate office.                
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  In most cases, the application by an Indian tribe or tribal organization to         
  administer the program can be approved by the Area/Agency Education Program         
  Administrator or the Area/Agency Bureau Contracting Officer. Individual             
  students are notified by the Area/Agency Education Program Administrator or         
  tribal contractor, and funds are sent to the applicant in care of the college or    
  university financial aid office.                                                    
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Applications to administer the program may be submitted at any time.                
                                                                                      
  Deadlines for individual student applications are determined by the Education

                                                                                      
  Line Office and/or tribal contractor.

                                                                                      
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

                                                                                      
  Applications by Indian tribes and tribal organizations to administer the program

                                                                                      
  will be processed within 90 days. Applications by students will be processed

                                                                                      
  within 6 to 10 weeks after all required documents are submitted.

                                                                                      
Appeals:

                                                                                      
  Indian tribes and tribal organizations whose application to administer the

                                                                                      
  program is denied may request an informal conference with the deciding

                                                                                      
  official, or may appeal the denial of the application to the Interior Board of

  Indian Appeals, or may bring suit in U.S. District Court. Full appeal procedures

  are found in 25 CFR Part 900. Individual students may appeal a Bureau of            
  Indian Affairs official's decision to the Area/Agency Education Program

                                                                                      
  Administrator under the procedures contained in 25 CFR Part 2, " Appeals from

  Administrative Actions."

                                                                                      
Renewals:                                                                             
  Awards to Indian tribes and tribal organizations may be renewed indefinitely

                                                                                      
  upon satisfactory performance by the contractor/grantee. A notice of intent to

                                                                                      
  renew should be submitted at least 90 days prior to the expiration of the current   
  award. The amount of the award may be adjusted as a result of individual tribal     
  priorities established in the budget formulation process. Grants to students may    
  be continued through the undergraduate level if the student maintains acceptable    
  progress and academic standing. Renewal applications must be submitted              
  annually with updated grades or transcript.                                         
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Not applicable to Indian tribes and tribal organizations. Students are expected to  
  take advantage of the campus-based financial aid programs offered to all            
  students, and any other scholarships which may be available to them.                
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Awards to Indian tribes and tribal organizations are made on an annual basis.       
  Payments may be made in advance or by way of reimbursement. The time of the         
  payments will be negotiated with the Indian tribe or tribal organization. Grants    
  to students are generally made for the academic year on a quarter or semester       
  basis. A grant is for a period not to exceed 5 years, or the period of time required
  to complete the course of study.                                                    
Reports:                                                                              
  Indian tribes and tribal organizations are required to submit financial status      
  reports, SF 269A. Program accomplishment reporting requirements will be             
  negotiated with the Self-Determination contractor/grantee. Students applying        
  for continuation of grants must submit grade reports at the end of each academic    
  year.                                                                               
Audits:                                                                               
  For awards administered by Indian tribes and tribal organizations, the              
  contractor/grantee is responsible for obtaining audits. All nonfederal entities     
  that expend $500,000 or more of Federal awards in a year ($300,000 for fiscal       
  year ending on or before December 30, 2003) are required to obtain an annual        
  audit in accordance with the Single Audit Act Amendments of 1996 (31 U.S.C.         
  7501 et. seq.) and OMB Circular A-133 Compliance Supplement and                     
  Government Auditing Standards. Nonfederal entities that expend less than            
  $500,000 (for fiscal years ending after December 1, 2003) a year in Federal         
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted    
  in OMB Circular A-133.                                                              
Records:                                                                              
  Financial records must be maintained by the Indian tribe or tribal organization     
  for three years from the date of submission of the single audit report.             
  Procurement records must be retained for three years from the date of final         
  payment. Property records must be retained for three years from the date of         


                                                                                 11-08
  disposition, replacement, or transfer. Records pertaining to any litigation, audit
  exceptions or claims must be retained until the dispute has been resolved.
Account Identification:
  14-2100-0-1-501.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $25,832,000; FY 08 est $25,959,000; and FY 09 est $20,138,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $300 to $5,000; $3,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Annually an estimated 9,800 students receive assistance.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  25 CFR, Part 40; 25 CFR Part 900.
Regional or Local Office:
  See Education Line Officers' addresses in Catalog Appendix IV.
Headquarters Office:
  Office of Indian Education Programs, Room MS 3609-MIB, 1849 C Street,
  NW., Washington, DC 20240. Contact: Keith Neves. Telephone: (202)208-
  3601. Use the same number for FTS.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.oiep.bia.edu/scholarships.htm; http://www.doi.gov/bureau-indian-
  affairs.html.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  15.108, Indian Employment Assistance.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  The Bureau's scholarship program provides about 25 percent of the student's
  total financial aid.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  All Indian tribes and tribal organizations meeting the requirements of 25 CFR
  Part 900 will be selected if the program has been prioritized by the Indian tribe
  through participation in the Bureau of Indian Affairs' Tribal Priority Allocation
  budget formulation process. Final determination to fund student applications is
  based on the individual's eligibility and total dollars available to the Indian tribe
  or tribal organization or local Bureau office.
15.124 INDIAN LOANS-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
   (Loan Guaranty, Insurance, and Interest Subsidy Program)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS, OFFICE OF INDIAN ENERGY AND
  ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR.
AUTHORIZATION:
  Snyder Act of 1921, Public Law 67-85, 42 Stat. 208, 25 U.S.C. 13; Indian
  Reorganization Act of 1934, Section 10, Public Law 73-383, 48 Stat. 986, 25
  U.S.C. 470; Public Law 93-262, 88 Stat. 77 through 83, 25 U.S.C. 1451; Indian
  Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, Public Law 93-638, as
  amended, 25 U.S.C. 450 et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide assistance to Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments,
  Native American Organizations, and individual American Indians in obtaining
  financing from private sources to promote business development initiatives to
  improve the economies of Federally Recognized Indian Reservations.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Guaranteed/Insured Loans.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Loans may be used to finance commercial, industrial, agricultural, or business
  activities, which benefit Federal Indian Reservation economies. Loan guarantees
  to private lenders will only be provided if funds otherwise would be unavailable
  to the borrower.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments, Native American
  Organizations authorized by Indian tribal governments, and individual American
  Indians.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments, Native American
  Organizations, and individual American Indians or Alaska natives. Complete
  information on beneficiary eligibility is found in 25 CFR, Part 103.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Individual applicants must submit a certificate signed by Bureau Agency
  Superintendent or authorized Tribal representative that indicates the applicant is
  an enrolled member or registered with a Federally recognized Indian tribal
  government. Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments and Native
  American Organizations must submit a resolution of the governing body of the
  Indian Tribe. All applicants must demonstrate their inability to obtain financing
  through the same institutions serving other citizens.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applications for loan guarantees should be submitted by the lender at the local
  Bureau of Indian Affairs Agency or Tribal Loan Administration Office. Lenders
  should contact the local office for information on documentation needed to
                                                                                          407
