Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments and tribal organizations to        
  administer the program who have eligible applicants with identified housing       
  needs. Individual members of Federally recognized Indian tribes living in         
  approved tribal service areas in need of housing assistance who are unable to     
  obtain assistance from any other source, and who meet the eligibility criteria of 
  the HIP regulations (25 CFR Part 256 "Housing Improvement Program").              
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                            
  Individual members of Federally recognized Indian tribes.                         
Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  Initial applications by Indian tribes and tribal organizations must be            
  accompanied by an authorizing resolution of the governing body of the Indian      
  tribe(s) to be served. Individual Indians must furnish information required by 25 
  CFR Part 256, basically proving membership in a Federally-recognized Indian       
  tribe and financial inability to obtain assistance for repairs or new housing.    
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  Funds may be used in conjunction with other Federal programs, such as Indian      
  Heath Service for water and sanitary facilities, or privately financed programs   
  that are appropriate to repair or build housing. An informal conference with      
  Bureau of Indian Affairs agency representative is recommended. This program       
  is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                                       
Application Procedure:                                                              
  Initial applications from Indian tribes and tribal organizations must contain the 
  information specified in 25 CFR Part 900, Subpart C, "Contract Proposal           
  Contents." Completed application should be submitted to the local Bureau of       
  Indian Affairs agency or regional office listed in Appendix IV. Individual        
  Indians should submit written applications to the local tribal servicing housing  
  office, or local Bureau of Indian Affairs agency or regional office listed in     
  Appendix IV.                                                                      
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  The dollar value of the award to Indian tribes and tribal organizations is        
  determined through the use of annual tribal work plans identifying eligible       
  applicants and through prioritization under the Bureau of Indian Affairs' Tribal  
  Priority Allocation budget formulation process.                                   
Deadlines:                                                                          
  For Indian tribes and tribal organizations, applications may be submitted at any  
  time. For individual Indians, as set at the local level.                          
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  Applications will be processed within 90 days.                                    
Appeals:                                                                            
  Applicants whose request to administer the program is denied may request an       
  informal conference with the deciding official, or may appeal the denial of the   
  application to the Interior Board of Indian Appeals, or may bring suit in U.S.    
  District Court. Full appeal procedures are found in 25 CFR part 900. An           
  individual whose request is denied may appeal a Bureau of Indian Affairs          
  official's decision to the Regional Director under the procedures contained in 25 
  CFR Part 2, "Appeals From Administrative Actions."                                
Renewals:                                                                           
  Awards to Indian tribes and tribal organizations to administer the program may    
  be renewed indefinitely upon satisfactory performance by the contractor. A        
  notice of intent to renew should be submitted at least 90 days prior to the       
  expiration of the current award. The amount of the award may be adjusted as a     
  result of changes in the identified eligible applicants and in individual tribal  
  priorities established in the budget formulation process. For individual Indians, 
  receipt of program services represent one-time direct assistance.                 
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  None.                                                                             
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

  For Indian tribes and tribal organizations awards are made on an annual basis

  and the funds remain available until expended by the contractor. Payments may

                                                                                    
  be made in advance or by way of reimbursement. The timing of payment will be      
  negotiated with the Indian tribes.                                                
Reports:                                                                            
  For Indian tribes and tribal organization administering the program financial     
  status reports, SF-269A, are required. Program progress reporting requirements    
  will be negotiated with the contractor.                                           
Audits:                                                                             
  For awards administered by Indian tribes and tribal organizations, the contractor 
  is responsible for obtaining audits. All nonfederal entities that expend $500,000 
  or more of Federal awards in a year ($300,000 for fiscal year ending on or before 
  December 30, 2003) are required to obtain an annual audit in accordance with      
  the Single Audit Act Amendments of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501 et. seq.) and OMB         
  Circular A - 133 Compliance Supplement and Government Auditing Standards.         
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 (for fiscal years ending after 
  December 1, 2003) a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit          
  requirements for that year, except as noted in OMB Circular A - 133.              
Records:                                                                            
  Financial records must be retained for 3 years from the date of submission of the 
  single audit report. Procurement records must be retained for 3 years from the    
  date of final payment. Property records must be retained for 3 years from the     


410                                                                           11-08

  date of disposition, replacement, or transfer. Records pertaining to any
  litigation, audit exceptions or claims must be retained until the dispute has been
  resolved.
Account Identification:
  14-2301-0-1-452.
Obligations:
  (Total Amount of Awards: Self-Determination Contracts and Direct Grants) FY
  07 $23,000,000; FY 08 est $13,000,000; and FY 09 est $0.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  For HIP, maximum of $35,000 for repairs and renovations; $2,500 for interim
  improvements. The average cost of repair has been approximately $17,500.
  New housing does not have a specified maximum amount, but is intended to
  provide only a modest standard dwelling. Average new housing construction
  cost has been approximately $55,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  On an annual basis over 500 families receive services under the HIP program
  through repairs/renovations or new or replacement construction.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  25 Part 256, "Housing Improvement Program;" 25 CFR Part 900, "Contracts
  under the Indian Self- Determination and Educational Assistance Act;" and
  OMB Circular No. A-87, "Cost Principles for State, Local and Indian Tribal
  Governments.
Regional or Local Office:
  See Catalog Appendix IV for Regional Office addresses.
Headquarters Office:
  Deputy Director, Office of Tribal Services, Bureau of Indian Affairs,1849 C St.,
  N.W., MS 4513 MIB, Washington, DC 20240. Telephone: (202) 513-7640.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.doi.gov/bia/tservices/hip/housing.htm; http://www.doi.gov/bureau-
  indian-affairs.html.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  10.410, Very Low to Moderate Income Housing Loans; 14.850, Public and
  Indian Housing.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  The HIP does not fund multi-unit projects as such, the assistance is granted to
  repair Indian owned and inhabited individual houses with each house considered
  to be a project. Occasionally, several individual projects may be constructed
  simultaneously in close proximity giving the appearance of a multi-unit project.
  One such occurrence was the construction of several units in California. Prior to
  HIP undertaking there was no housing in this area. No other federally-assisted
  housing program was able to meet this need. The result of constructing housing
  in this area has been significant. The effort proved decent housing could be a
  reality in remote geographic areas.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Indian tribes and tribal organizations meeting the requirements of 25 CFR Part
  900 will be selected if a viable tribal work plan identifying eligible applicants,
  the category of assistance needed, the estimated project cost for each eligible
  applicant, and a report of prior year accomplishments is submitted and the tribe
  has high priority ranking eligible applicants for which sufficient funding is
  available for the needed project or the program has been prioritized by the Indian
  tribe through tribal participation in the Bureau of Indian Affairs' Tribal Priority
  Allocation budget formulation process. Individual Indians must meet the
  eligibility requirements contained in 25 CFR Part 256. Requests are made by
  individuals to the local tribal servicing housing office or to local BIA agencies
  for repair or new housing assistance. Starting with the most needy, regardless of
  the category of services required, applicants are served until available funds are
  exhausted.
15.144 INDIAN CHILD WELFARE ACT-TITLE II GRANTS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Indian Child Welfare Act; Public Law 95-608, 92 Stat. 3075, 25 U.S.C. 1901.
OBJECTIVES:
  To promote the stability and security of American Indian tribes and families by
  protecting American Indian children and preventing the separation of American
  Indian families and providing assistance to Indian tribes in the operation of child
  and family service programs.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Operation and maintenance of counseling facilities, family assistance
  (homemaker and home counselors), protective day care, and after school care,
  recreational activities, respite care, employment of professionals to assist tribal
  courts personnel, education and training, foster care subsidy programs, legal
  advice and representation, home improvement programs with the primary
  emphasis of upgrading unsafe home environments, preparation and
  implementation of child welfare codes, and providing matching shares for other
  Federal programs.
