Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments.                                   
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                            
  American Indian children and families.                                            
Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  Initial application must be accompanied by an authorizing resolution of the       
  governing body of the Indian tribe.                                               
Preapplication Coordination:

  An informal conference with Bureau of Indian Affairs agency or regional

  representative is recommended. This program is excluded from coverage under

                                                                                    
  E.O. 12372.                                                                       
Application Procedure:                                                              
  Application procedures are contained in 25 CFR Part 23, Subpart C "Grants to      
  Indian Tribes for Title II Indian Child and Family Service Programs." The         
  application must contain the information specified in Section 23.33 "Tribal       
  Government Application Content." Completed applications should be submitted       
  to the local Bureau of Indian Affairs agency or regional office listed in Appendix
  IV.                                                                               
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  In most instances, awards can be approved at the agency or regional level. The    
  dollar value of the grant depends upon the amount that has been prioritized by    
  the Indian tribe through participation in the Bureau of Indian Affairs budget     
  formulation process.                                                              
Deadlines:                                                                          
  Contact local Bureau of Indian Affairs agency or regional office listed in        
  Appendix IV.                                                                      
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  Not applicable.                                                                   
Appeals:                                                                            
  An unsuccessful applicant may appeal a Bureau of Indian Affairs official's        
  decision under the procedures contained in 25 CFR Part 23, Subpart F              
  "Appeals," and 25 CFR Part 2 "Appeals from Administrative Actions."               
Renewals:                                                                           
  Grants may be renewed indefinitely upon satisfactory performance by the           
  grantee. The amount of the award may be adjusted as a result of individual        
  tribal priorities established in the budget formulation process.                  
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  None.                                                                             
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  Grants are made on an annual basis and the funds remain available until           
  expended by the tribe/grantee.                                                    
Reports:                                                                            
  Financial status reports, SF 269A, are required. Program accomplishment           
  reporting requirements are specified in 25 CFR Part 23, Subpart E, Section        
  23.47 "Reports and Availability of Information to Indians."                       
Audits:                                                                             
  For awards made under this program, tribes/grantees are responsible for           
  obtaining audits in accordance with the Single Audit Act Amendments of 1996       
  (31 U.S.C. 7501 et seq.).                                                         
Records:                                                                            
  Financial records must be retained for 3 years from the date of submission of the 
  single audit report. Procurement records must be retained for 3 years from the    
  date of final payment. Property records must be retained for 3 years from the     
  date of disposition, replacement, or transfer. Records pertaining to any          
  litigation, audit exceptions or claims must be retained until the dispute has been
  resolved.                                                                         
Account Identification:                                                             
  14-2100-0-1-452.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  (Contracts and Grants) FY 07 $10,063,000; FY 08 est $10,974,000; and FY 09        
  est not available.                                                                
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  $26,449 to $750,000; $60,000.                                                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  There are over 27,000 referrals each year to the more than 500 Bureau and tribal  
  programs for child abuse and neglect investigations.                              
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  25 CFR 23; 25 CFR 2.                                                              
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  Information can be secured from the Agency Superintendents and from Regional      
  Directors. See Appendix IV of the Catalog for addresses.                          
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Deputy Director, Office of Tribal Services, Services, Bureau of Indian Affairs,   
  1849 C Street, N.W., MS 320 SIB, Washington, DC 20240. Telephone: (202)           
  513-7640.                                                                         
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  http://www.doi.gov/bia/ots/otshome.htm; http://www.doi.gov/bureau-indian-         
  affairs.html.                                                                     
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  None.                                                                             
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        


                                                                               11-08
  An Indian Child Welfare Program operated by an Indian tribe in North Carolina.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Only applicants who received Indian Child Welfare Act Title II grants in 1994
  and who meet the requirements contained in 25 CFR Part 23 will be funded if
  the program has been prioritized by the individual Indian tribe through
  participation in the Bureau of Indian Affairs' Tribal Priority Allocation budget
  formulation process.
15.146 IRONWORKER TRAINING PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Snyder Act of 1921, Public Law 67-85, 42 Stat. 208, 25 U.S.C. 13; Indian Adult
  Vocational Training Act of 1956, Public Law 84-959, 70 Stat. 986, as amended;
  Public Law 88-230, 77 Stat. 471, 25 U.S.C. 309.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide ironworker vocational training, apprenticeships, and job placement
  to eligible American Indians through the National Ironworkers Training
  Program, located in Broadview, Illinois.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Eligible American Indians who reside on or near an Indian reservation may
  receive vocational training in ironworking and assistance with job placement
  upon completion of the program.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Applicants must be an American Indian who is a member of a Federally
  Recognized Indian Tribe, at least 18 years old, possess a high school diploma or
  General Equivalency Development (GED) Certificate, be in good physical
  health, and reside on or near an Indian reservation under the jurisdiction of the
  Bureau of Indian Affairs.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  American Indian who is a member of a Federally Recognized Indian Tribal
  Government, at least 18 years old, possess a high school diploma or General
  Equivalency Development (GED) Certificate, be in good physical health, and
  reside on or near an Indian reservation under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of
  Indian Affairs. Complete information on beneficiary eligibility is found in 25
  CFR, Part 26.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicant must submit a certificate signed by a Bureau Agency Superintendent
  or authorized Tribal representative that indicates the applicant is an enrolled
  member or registered with a Federally Recognized Indian Tribe.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applicants should apply for program services on Bureau of Indian Affairs Form
  BIA-8205 at the nearest Bureau Employment Assistance office or tribal
  government office.
Award Procedure:
  Individual applications are processed at the Bureau agency or tribal contract
  offices to determine eligibility.
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  1 to 90 days.
Appeals:
  Appeals may be made to the Bureau of Indian Affairs' Agency Superintendent or
  to the Regional Director. The complete appeal process for an individual is found
  in 25 CFR, Part 2, "Appeals of Administrative Actions." Appeals of a Tribal
  contractor's decision must be made under the Tribe's appeal procedures.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Assistance for Ironworker training is not to exceed 12 weeks. Payments for
  subsistence and related training costs are released as required by beneficiary. Job
  placement assistance is provided upon completion of training.
Reports:
  None.
Audits:
  None.
Records:
  None.
Account Identification:
  14-2100-0-1-452.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 est not available; FY 08 est not available (program not funded);
  and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
                                                                                    411
