  Students receive $185 per week for the duration of the program for room and        
  board and miscellaneous expenses. Work clothes and tools are also provided.        
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  Over 120 individuals have participated in this program; over 80 completed their    
  training and over 60 of these individuals were subsequently employed as            
  ironworkers.                                                                       
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  25 CFR 26.                                                                         
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  Applications may be filed at the local Bureau of Indian Affairs agency office as   
  listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog. For direct contact: Mr. Russell Geishwnd,    
  Director, National Ironworkers Training Program for American Indians, 1819         
  Beach Street, Broadview, Illinois 60153. Telephone (708)345-2344.                  
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Office of Indian Energy and Economic Development, Division of Workforce            
  Development, Assistant Secretary of Indian Affairs, 1951 Constitution Ave.,        
  N.W., MS-20-SIB, Washington, DC 20245. Contact Lynn Forcia. Telephone              
  (202)219-5270.                                                                     
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.doi.gov/bia/ecodev/index.htm; http://www.doi.gov/bureau-indian-         
  affairs.html.                                                                      
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  15.108, Indian Employment Assistance; 15.114, Indian Education_Higher              
  Education Grant Program; 15.850, Indian Arts and Crafts Development; 15.060,       
  Indian Vocational Training_United Tribes Technical College.                        
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  This program provides vocational training and job placement in ironworking to      
  individuals.                                                                       
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Applications are received for both vocational training and direct employment       
  participants. Final determination to fund an application is based on the           
  individual's eligibility.                                                          
                                                                                     
15.147 TRIBAL COURTS-TRUST REFORM INITIATIVE                                         
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR                               
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, Public Law 93-638, as      
  amended, 25 U.S.C. 450 et seq.; American Indian Trust Fund Management              
  Reform Act of 1994, Public Law 103-412, 25 U.S.C. 4001 et seq.                     
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To provide grant funds to Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments that      
  operate a judicial branch of government which has assumed the increased            
  responsibilities required by 25 CFR Part 115--Trust Funds for Individual Indians   
  Money accounts.                                                                    
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Under 25 CFR Part 115, tribal courts may assume responsibility for appointing      
  guardians, determining competency, awarding child support from Indian              
  Individual Money (IIM) accounts, determining paternity, sanctioning adoptions,     
  marriages and divorces, making presumptions of death. Funds under this             
  program may be used for salaries and related expenses of tribal court judges,      
  prosecutors, defenders, clerks of court, and other court personnel. However,       
  funds provided are specifically made available to tribal courts that assume the    
  additional responsibility under 25 CFR Part 115 and are not intended to be used    
  as general operating funds for a judiciary and may not be reprogrammed for         
  other tribal uses.                                                                 
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments that operate a judicial branch      
  of government which has assumed the increased responsibilities required by 25      
  CFR Part 115.                                                                      
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments that operate a tribal judicial      
  branch which has assumed the increased responsibilities required by 25 CFR         
  Part 115 and its members.                                                          
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Application must be accompanied by a Certification of the governing body of        
  the Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Government attesting to the fact that: (1)  
  The tribal court has adopted and made accessible the court rules setting forth the 
  procedures to adjudicate these cases; (2) Tribal court personnel have been         
  trained to process these cases and the court is staffed to fulfill the tribal      
  legislative mandate, and (3) The tribal justice system is one that serves as the   
  judicial component of a tribal government which is federally recognized by the     
  United States Government.                                                          
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                     
Application Procedure:                                                               
  A notice of fund availability will be published in the Federal Register to         




412                                                                            11-08

  announce the availability of grant funds, the amount of funding available and the
  requirements for eligibility including a deadline for filing applications. An
  application must be submitted on the form entitled " Application for Federal
  Assistance," (Standard Form 424, Rev 7-97). The Federally Recognized Tribal
  Government will be required to provide a certification as a response to Item #ll
  "Descriptive Title of Applicant's Project", in the SF-424, that the threshold
  requirements for the grant funds are met. Applications will be submitted to the
  Headquarters Office.
Award Procedure:
  Funds will be distributed to tribal courts based on the cost per case as
  determined by the data submitted on SF 424 by all qualified applicants.
Deadlines:
  Contact the Headquarters Office for application deadline.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Applications will be processed within 90 days.
Appeals:
  An unsuccessful applicant may appeal the decision under the regulations
  contained in 25 CFR Part 2.
Renewals:
  Grants will be awarded on an annual basis. An application will need to be
  submitted each year to qualify to receive grant funds, until it is determined that
  the fund will be awarded as a part of the permanent tribal base.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Formula and Matching Requirements: The program has no statutory formula. In
  partnership with tribes the Bureau of Indian Affairs developed a distribution
  formula to allocate the funds among qualified applicants. Funds will be
  distributed to tribal courts based on the cost per case as determined by the data
  submitted on SF 424 by all qualified applicants. The amount each qualified
  applicant will receive may vary from year to year depending on the total number
  of cases projected the amount available for grant awards under this program.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Length and Time Phasing of Assistance: Awards are made on an annual basis
  and the funds remain available until expended by the grantee. The timing of the
  payments will be negotiated with the Indian tribe.
Reports:
  Financial status reports, SF 269A, are required. Program accomplishment
  reporting requirements will be negotiated with the grantee, a report at the end of
  the fiscal year reconciling the Supervised IIM account case load will also be
  required.
Audits:
  For awards made under the program, grantees are responsible for obtaining
  audits in accordance with the Single Audit Act Amendments of 1996 (31 U.S.C.
  7501 et seq.).
Records:
  Financial records must be retained for 3 years from the date of submission of the
  single audit report. Procurement records must be retained for 3 years from the
  date of final payment. Property records must be retained for 3 years from the
  date of disposition, replacement, or transfer. Records pertaining to any
  litigation, audit exceptions or claims must be retained until the dispute has been
  resolved.
Account Identification:
  14-2100-0-1-452.
Obligations:
  (Total Amount of Awards) FY 07 est not available, FY 08 est not available; and
  FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $3,000 to $216,000; $50,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  None.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  25 CFR Part 276; 25 CFR Part 2; 25 CFR Part 115.
Regional or Local Office:
  Bureau of Indian Affairs agency or regional office as listed in Appendix IV of
  the Catalog.
Headquarters Office:
  Office of Tribal Services, Bureau of Indian Affairs, MS 320-SIB, 1849 C Street,
  NW., MS 320-SIBWashington, DC 20240. Contact: Ralph Gonzales. Telephone:
  (202) 513-7641. Use the same number for FTS.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.doi.gov/bia/ots/otshome.htm; http://www.doi.gov/bureau-indian-
  affairs.html
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  15.029, Tribal Courts.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  All qualified applicants will be funded. A qualified applicant is a tribal
  government submitting an application for funding by the deadline specified for a
  tribal court meeting the following threshold requirements: (1) The tribal
  government has enacted the codes necessary for the tribal justice system to carry
