  out its responsibility under 25 CFR Part 115; (2) The tribal court has adopted        
  and made accessible the court rules setting forth the procedures to adjudicate        
  these cases; (3) Tribal court personnel have been trained to process these cases      
  and the court is staffed to fulfill the tribal legislative mandate; and (4) The tribal
  justice system is one that serves as the judicial component of a tribal government    
  which is federally recognized by the United States Government.                        
                                                                                        
                                                                                        
15.148 TRIBAL ENERGY DEVELOPMENT CAPACITY

                                                                                        
GRANTS                                                                                  
   (TEDC )                                                                              
                                                                                        
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                         
  OFFICE OF INDIAN ENERGY AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT,                                     
  BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR                                  
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                          
  Title XXVI (Indian Energy) of the Energy Policy Act of 1992, as amended (25           
  CFR, Section 3502(a)(2)(A)).                                                          
OBJECTIVES:                                                                             
  To provide development grants to Indian tribes for use in developing and              
  sustaining the managerial and technical capacity needed to develop their energy       
  resources, and to properly account for resulting energy production and revenues.      
  Proposals from tribes should strive to achieve the following stated goals:            
  Evaluated the type and range of energy development activities that a tribe way        
  want to assume under a TERA; Determine the current level of scientific,               
  technical, administrative, for financial management capacity of the tribe to          
  assume responsibility for the identified development activities; and determine        
  which scientific, technical, administrative, or financial management capacities       
                                                                                        
  need enhancement and what process and/or procedures the grantee may use to

                                                                                        
  eliminate these capacity gaps.

                                                                                        
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:

                                                                                        
  Direct payments for specified use.

                                                                                        
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

                                                                                        
  Federally recognized tribes whose lands are held in trust or restricted fee by the

                                                                                        
  Federal government.

                                                                                        
Applicant Eligibility:

                                                                                        
  Federally recognized Indian tribal governments.

                                                                                        
Beneficiary Eligibility:

                                                                                        
  Federally recognized tribal governments and their members.

                                                                                        
Credentials/Documentation:

                                                                                        
  Application for financial assistance must contain a formal signed resolution of

                                                                                        
  the governing body of the tribe; a proposal describing the planned activities and

                                                                                        
  deliverable products; and a detailed budget estimate.

                                                                                        
Preapplication Coordination:

                                                                                        
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.

Application Procedure:                                                                  
  Applications must meet all requirements published in the Federal Register notice      
  and be submitted to IEED, Division of Indian Energy Policy Development,               
  Room 20 - South Interior Building, 1951 Constitution Avenue, NW,                      
  Washington, DC 20245.                                                                 
Award Procedure:                                                                        
  Recommendations from an IEED technical evaluation committee must be                   
  approved by the Director, IEED.

Deadlines:                                                                              
  Due 60 days after announcement of grant availability in the Federal Register.

Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                     
  30 to 45 days.

Appeals:                                                                                
  An applicant with a rejected TEDC proposal may appeal the denial of the               
  application to the Department of the Interior's Board of Indian Appeals or may        
  bring suit in U.S. District Court. Full appeal procedures are found in 25 CFR,        
  Part 900.                                                                             
Renewals:                                                                               
  The TEDC program cannot award multi-year funding for a project. Funding               
  available for building energy development capacity is subject to annual               
  appropriations by Congress and therefore IEED can only consider single-year           
  projects.                                                                             
                                                                                        
Formula and Matching Requirements:

  None.                                                                                 
                                                                                        
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

  Awards are made on an annual basis and the funds remain available until               
  expended by the recipient. The timing of payments will be negotiated by the           
  Regional Office, Contract Officer, adn the recipient.                                 
Reports:                                                                                
  During the life of the TEDC project, Financial Status Reports and quarterly           
  progress reports are to be submitted to the IEED project coordinator assigned to      
  the project. The beginning and ending quarter periods are based on the acutal         
  start date of the TEDC project. This date can be determined between the IEED          
  project coordinator and the tribe. The quarterly report can be a one to two page

  summary of events, accomplishments, problems and/or results that took place           
                                                                                        


                                                                                   11-08
  during the quarter. Quarterly reports are due two weeks after the end of the a
  project's fiscal quarter. For Final Report, the tribe must deliver all products and
  data generated by the proposed assessment project to IEED through the TEDC
  project coordinator within two weeks after completion of the project.
Audits:
  All non-Federal entities that expend $500,000 or more of Federal awards in a
  year ($300,000 for fiscal year ending on or before December 30, 2003) are
  required to obtain an annual audit in accordance with the Single Audit Act
  Amendments of 1996 and OMB Circular A-133. Non-federal entities that
  expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal
  audit requirements for that year, except as noted in OMB Circular A-133.
Records:
  Financial records must be retained for three years from the date of submission of
  the single audit report. Procurement records must be retained for three years
  from the date of the final payment. Property records must be retained for three
  years from the date of disposition, replacement, or transfer. Records pertaining
  to any litigation, audit exceptions, or claims must be retained until the dispute
  has been resolved.
Account Identification:
  14-2100-7-8-302.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $374,773; FY 08 $1,000,000; and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Determined on an annual basis, subject to appropriations. In FY 07 awards were
  limited to $50,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Not applicable.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Published in Federal Register Notice annually.
Regional or Local Office:
  Regional Office Contract Officer.
Headquarters Office:
  IEED, Division of Indian Energy Policy Development, Room 20 - South Interior
  Building, 1951 Constitution Avenue, NW, Washington, D.C. 20245, Phone:
  (202)219-0740, Fax: (202) 208-4564.
Web Site Address:
  None.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  Energy and Mineral Development Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Chippewa Cree Tribe of Rocky Boys Reservation - Tribal Energy Resource
  Development Plant; Passamaqooddy Tribe of Pleasant Point - Development of
  tribal governmental development entity and skills needs assessment; Prairie
  Band Potawatomi - Develop energy vision, viable energy development options,
  and action plan.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The proposal ranking criteria factors are as follows: (1) Resource potential; (2)
  Energy development history and current status; (3) Existing energy development
  capabilities; (4) Intent to develop and retain energy development capacity within
  tribal government or business entities; (5) Demonstrated willingness to develop
  independent energy development business entity; and (6) Tribal commitment to
  staff, training, or monetory resources.
15.214 NON-SALE DISPOSALS OF MINERAL MATERIAL
  (Free Use of Mineral Material)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Materials Act of 1947, Public Law 80-291, 30 U.S.C. 601-604, 611, as
  amended.
OBJECTIVES:
  To permit free use of certain mineral material from federally owned lands under
  the jurisdiction of the Bureau by governmental units and nonprofit
  organizations.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Sale, Exchange, or Donation of Property and Goods.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Free use permits are granted to governmental units without regard to number of
  permits or value of mineral material, provided the mineral material is for use on
  a public project. Permits are granted to nonprofit organizations for mineral
  material not to exceed 5000 cubic yards during any period of twelve consecutive
  months. All free-use mineral material must be extracted in accordance with
  approved conservation practices, terms, and conditions that provide for
  protection of environment and rehabilitation of any damage caused by mineral
  material extraction.
ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS:
Applicant Eligibility:
  Any Federal or State agency, unit, or subdivision, including municipalities,
                                                                                    413
