  where material will be used for public project; or any nonprofit association or       
  corporation. A free use permit will not be issued upon the determination that the

  applicant owns or control an adequate supply of suitable mineral materials that       
  are readily available and can be mined in a manner which is economically and

  environmentally acceptable. Mineral material obtained under a free use permit         
  may not be bartered or sold.                                                          
Beneficiary Eligibility:

  Federal or State agencies, units, or subdivisions, including municipalities, where    
  material will be used for public project; or any nonprofit association or             
  corporation.                                                                          
Credentials/Documentation:                                                              
  Evidence of eligibility, i.e., nonprofit status, delegation of authority for signing  
  official to take such action, surety bond, etc.                                       
APPLICATION AND AWARD PROCESS:                                                          
                                                                                        
Preapplication Coordination:                                                            
  This program may require submission of an environmental impact statement              
  and/or performance bond. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O.            
  12372.                                                                                
Application Procedure:                                                                  
  Submit application on Form 5510-1 to the proper Bureau of Land Management             
  office.                                                                               
Award Procedure:                                                                        
  If mineral material is available, applicant is qualified and application does not     
  conflict with other management practices or uses, application is approved and         
  one copy of the executed form is returned to the applicant. Environmental             
  analysis is accomplished and environmental impact statement is prepared if            
  necessary.                                                                            
Deadlines:                                                                              
  None.                                                                                 
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                     
  Varies. Term of permit not to exceed 10 years to any Federal or State agency,         
  unit, or subdivision, including municipalities. Permits to nonprofit organizations    
  are not to exceed 1 year.                                                             
Appeals:                                                                                
  Appeals may be made to the Board of Land Appeals, Office of Hearings and              
  Appeals as specified in 43 CFR Part 4 et seq.                                         
Renewals:                                                                               
  Any free use permits may be extended for a single additional period not to            
  exceed 1 year.                                                                        
ASSISTANCE CONSIDERATIONS:                                                              
                                                                                        
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                      
  Not applicable.                                                                       
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                  
  Not applicable.                                                                       
POST ASSISTANCE REQUIREMENTS:                                                           
                                                                                        
Reports:                                                                                
  Annual production report.

                                                                                        
Audits:

                                                                                        
  Must be available if requested to confirm production.

                                                                                        
Records:

                                                                                        
  None.

                                                                                        
FINANCIAL INFORMATION:

                                                                                        
                                                                                        
Account Identification:

  14-1109-0-1-302.                                                                      
Obligations:                                                                            
  (Free-Use Permits Issued) Not separately identifiable.                                
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                       
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                
  This information is available in the Public Land Statistics Publication which can     
  be found in most public libraries.                                                    
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                
  43 CFR 3620; 43 CFR Part 4.                                                           
INFORMATION CONTACTS:                                                                   
                                                                                        
Regional or Local Office:                                                               
  See Catalog Appendix IV for addresses.                                                
Headquarters Office:                                                                    
  Team Leader, Use Authorization Team, Bureau of Land Management,                       
  Department of the Interior, Washington, DC 20240. Telephone: (202) 452-0350.          
Web Site Address:                                                                       
  http://www.blm.gov/nhp/index.htm.                                                     
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                       
  None.                                                                                 
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                       
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                       


414                                                                               11-08

  Not applicable.
15.222 COOPERATIVE INSPECTION AGREEMENTS WITH
STATES AND TRIBES
   (Section 202 Agreements)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Federal Oil and Gas Royalty Act of 1982, Public Law 97-451, Title II, Section
  202, 30 U.S.C 1732.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide for the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) to enter into cooperative
  agreements with Tribes so that authorized Tribal inspectors can carry out
  inspection activities on Indian oil and gas leases within Tribal jurisdiction.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Assistance to be used only for costs directly required to carry out the agreed
  upon activities as described in the signed agreement.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Indian tribes with producing tribal oil and gas leases for which the Federal
  government has trust responsibility. States may enter into a cooperative
  agreement for inspection of tribal oil and gas leases with the permission of the
  Tribe.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Indian tribes with producing tribal oil and gas leases for which the Federal
  government has trust responsibility. States that have tribal permission to enter
  into cooperative agreements to conduct inspections on tribal oil and gas leases.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None. Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for
  State and local governments.
Preapplication Coordination:
  States or Tribes may request oil and gas inspection information necessary to
  prepare a proposal. The standard application form as furnished by the Federal
  agency and required by 43 CFR, Subpart C, must be used for this program. This
  program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Completed SF 424, Application for Federal Assistance; 424A, Budget
  Information - NonConstruction Programs; and 424B, Assurances -
  Nonconstruction Programs and proposal must be submitted to the appropriate
  BLM State Director. The proposal must include a description of the type and
  extent of inspection activities proposed under the agreement, the number of
  proposed inspectors, the proposed period or time the agreement will be in effect;
  and the name, address and telephone number of the State or Tribal contact.
Award Procedure:
  Within 30 days of receipt of the proposal BLM will determine if the application
  is complete. If the application is acceptable, a start date will be given for
  negotiating the agreement. Negotiations will be carried out by the appropriate
  Field Office of the BLM.
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Within 30 days the District or Resource Area Office will notify the State or
  Tribe if the application is complete and acceptable.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Agreements may be renewed with the consent of the BLM and the State or
  Tribe.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  As provided in 43 CFR 3190.2-2, funding will be up to 100 percent of allowable
  cost.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Funding shall be at least quarterly, upon submission of invoice or request for
  reimbursement.
Reports:
  As specified in the agreement.
Audits:
  For awards made under this program, grantees are responsible for obtaining
  audits in accordance with the Single Audit Act Amendments of 1996 (31 U.S.C.
  7501 et seq.), and OMB Circular A-133, Audits of States, Local Governments,
  and Non-Profit Organizations. In accordance with the provisions of OMB
  Circular No. A-133, "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-profit
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program- specific audit
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
