Records:                                                                             
  All records are to be maintained for a period of 6 years or as specified in the    
  agreement.                                                                         
Account Identification:                                                              
  14-1109-0-1-302.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Grants) FY 07 $1,000,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not              
  available.                                                                         
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  $664 to $260,000; $67,877.                                                         
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  To date, Tribal Oil and Gas Inspectors conducted 655 Inspections resulting in      
  394 violations being detected.                                                     
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  43 CFR 3190; 43 CFR 3192.                                                          
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  See Catalog Appendix IV for list of BLM offices.                                   
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Assistant Director, Resource Use and Protection (300), Department of the           
  Interior, Washington, DC 20240. Telephone: (202) 208-4201.                         
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.blm.gov/nhp/index.htm.                                                  
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  None.                                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  To date there are four funded inspection agreements with Tribes.                   
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Availability of funding and inspection workload.                                   
                                                                                     
15.224 CULTURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT                                                  
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:

                                                                                     
  BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                                                                                     
AUTHORIZATION:

  Federal Land Policy and Management Act, Public Law 94-579; Archaeological          
  Resources Protection Act, Public Law 96-95; National Historic Preservation Act     
  of 1966, Public Law 89-665, as amended.                                            
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To manage and protect cultural resources on the public lands and to increase       
  public awareness and appreciation of these resources. Most of these lands are      
  located in the Western United States and Alaska.                                   
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants; Sale, Exchange, or Donation of Property and Goods; Use of          
  Property, Facilities, and Equipment; Provision of Specialized Services; Advisory   
                                                                                     
  Services and Counseling; Dissemination of Technical Information; Training;

                                                                                     
  Investigation of Complaints.

                                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

                                                                                     
  All projects are restricted to lands administered by BLM. Most of these lands

                                                                                     
  are located in the Western United States and Alaska. Assistance can be used for

                                                                                     
  cooperation in managing cultural resources, e.g., stabilization of structures and

                                                                                     
  public contact/education or for improving information about cultural resources,

                                                                                     
  consistent with needs identified in BLM planning documents. No regular

                                                                                     
  discretionary fund is available but is highly variable each fiscal year.

                                                                                     
Applicant Eligibility:

                                                                                     
  Anyone/general public.

                                                                                     
Beneficiary Eligibility:

                                                                                     
  All Public Land users.

Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  For grants awarded, cost will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular        
  No. A-87 for State and Local Governments; OMB Circular No. A-21 for                
  educational institutions; OMB Circular No. A-122 for nonprofit organizations;      
  and Federal Acquisition Regulation Subpart 31.2 for private foundations, firms,    
  individuals, and other nonprofits excluded from coverage under OMB Circular        
  No. A-122.                                                                         
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                     
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Offers of Assistance are coordinated by Bureau State and Field Offices. No         
  specific application forms apply, except for grants awarded, the standard          
  application forms furnished by the Federal agency and required by 43 CFR Part      
  12, Subpart C, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and                 
  Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments," and 43 CFR Part 12,        
                                                                                     
  Subpart F, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Agreements

                                                                                     
  With Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and other Nonprofit

                                                                                     
  Organizations," must be used by this program.

                                                                                     
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Projects are reviewed at BLM State Office level and funding recommendations

                                                                                     
  are made through each State's annual work plan. Final budget approvals rest

                                                                                     
  with the Washington Office.

                                                                                     
Deadlines:

                                                                                     
  None.



                                                                                11-08
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Projects are approved through the Bureau budget cycle that normally requires at
  least one year to receive funding.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no matching requirements except for Challenge Cost-Share
  and Cooperative Conservation Initiative projects.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  No specific restrictions, however, most projects are funded on a year to year
  basis and funds are expended during a particular fiscal year.
Reports:
  Performance monitoring schedules and/or progress reports will be developed in
  consultation with the applicant, but will probably take place at least once during
  the life of a project.
Audits:
  Projects will be audited at least once during life cycle. Grants awarded to
  educational institutions and nonprofit organizations are subject to the audit
  requirements of 43 CFR Part 12, Subpart F, "Uniform Administrative
  Requirements for Grants and Agreements With Institutions of Higher Education,
  Hospitals, and Other Nonprofit Organizations". In accordance with the
  provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of States, Local Governments,
  and Non-Profit Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial
  assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have a single or a
  program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend
  less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit
  requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Records relating to work performed and costs are kept by the Bureau. There is
  no fixed records schedule. Records for grants awarded to State and Local
  Governments will be maintained in accordance with the provisions of 43 CFR
  Part 12, Subpart C, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and
  Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments." Records for grants
  awarded to institutions of higher education and other nonprofit organizations
  will be maintained as required by in accordance with the provisions of 43 CFR
  Part 12, Subpart F, "Uniform Administration Requirements for Grants and
  Agreements With Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other
  Nonprofit Organizations".
Account Identification:
  14-1109-0-1-302.
Obligations:
  FY 07 est not available; FY 08 est $3,350,000; and FY 09 est $9,750,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Not Applicable.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  BLM's cultural resources program continues its efforts to promote Heritage
  Education through partnerships and its Adventures in the Past initiative. BLM
  worked with over 20 university archaeology field schools to train students in
  archaeological methods, worked to identify almost 7,000 new cultural properties,
  and developed interpretive signing for over 300 properties. BLM uses challenge
  cost-share and Cooperative Conservation Initiative grants whenever possible on
  projects located on lands managed be the Federal Government, to enhance
  cultural and heritage resource management on Public Lands. Projects are
  restricted to lands administered by BLM in the Western United States and
  Alaska.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  BLM's cultural resource management program is basically guided by the
  provisions in 43 CFR Part 3, 43 CFR Part 7, 36 CFR Part 60 and 36 CFR Part
  800. A variety of public interest publications on these programs are available
  free of charge by contacting the appropriate State Office. Manuals providing
  basic program operational guidance for cultural resources (8100) may be
  obtained by contacting the Washington Office.
Regional or Local Office:
  See Catalog Appendix IV for addresses.
Headquarters Office:
  Group Administrator, Cultural and Recreation Group, Bureau of Land
  Management (WO 340), 1849 C St., NW., Washington, DC 20240. Telephone:
  (202) 452-0330.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.blm.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Cooperative agreements with universities to conduct management-focused
  archaeological field schools and scholarly research on public lands located in the
  Western United States and Alaska and cooperative agreements to produce
  education materials enhancing public awareness and appreciation of cultural
  resources.
                                                                                  415
