CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  Criteria used to select assistance proposals are based on a balanced review          
  including relevance to program objectives, merit and cost effectiveness.             
                                                                                       
15.225 RECREATION RESOURCE MANAGEMENT                                                  
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR                                
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Federal Land Policy and Management Act, Public Law 94-579.                           
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To manage recreational resource values on the public lands administered by the       
  Bureau of Land Management and to increase public awareness and appreciation          
  of these values.                                                                     
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants; Use of Property, Facilities, and Equipment; Provision of             
  Specialized Services; Advisory Services and Counseling; Dissemination of             
  Technical Information; Training.                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  All projects are restricted to lands administered by the BLM. Most of these          
  lands are located in the Western United States and Alaska. Assistance can be         
  used for helping the BLM manage and/or upgrade recreational resources and            
  related facilities, and in providing related public contact/education opportunities. 
  No regular discretionary fund is available. Funding is highly variable each fiscal   
  year.                                                                                
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Anyone/general public.                                                               
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  All Public Land users.                                                               
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  For grants awarded, cost will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular          
  No. A-87 for State and Local Governments; OMB Circular No. A-21 for                  
  educational institutions; OMB Circular No. A-122 for nonprofit organizations;        
  and Federal Acquisition Regulation Subpart 31.2 for private foundations, firms,      
  individuals, and other nonprofits excluded from coverage under OMB Circular          
  No. A-122.                                                                           
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  Coordinate cooperative project proposals with BLM State or District Offices.         
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                             
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Offers of Assistance are coordinated by Bureau State and Field Offices. No           
  specific application forms apply, except for grants awarded, the standard            
  application forms furnished by the Federal agency and required by 43 CFR Part        
  12, Subpart C, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and                   
  Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments," and 43 CFR Part 12,          
  Subpart F, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Agreements            
  With Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other Nonprofit                
  Organizations", must be used by this program.                                        
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  Projects are reviewed at State level and funding recommendations are made            
  through each State's annual work plan. Final budget approvals rest with the State    
  Director or Field Office Manager.

Deadlines:

  None.

                                                                                       
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Projects are approved through the Bureau budget cycle that normally requires at

  least one year to receive funding.                                                   
Appeals:                                                                               
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Renewals:                                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  This program has matching requirements under the challenge cost-share                
  program.                                                                             
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  No specific restrictions, however, most projects are funded on a year to year        
  basis and funds are expended during a particular fiscal year.                        
Reports:                                                                               
  Performance monitoring schedules and/or progress reports will be developed in        
  consultation with the applicant, but at a minimum will take place at least once      
  during the life of a project.                                                        
Audits:                                                                                
  Projects will be audited at least once during life cycle. Grants awarded to          
  educational institutions and nonprofit organizations are subject to the audit        
  requirements of 43 CFR Part 12, Subpart F, "Uniform Administrative                   
  Requirements for Grants and Agreements With Institutions of Higher Education,        
  Hospitals, and Other Nonprofit Organizations". In accordance with the                
  provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of States, Local Governments,          
  and Non-Profit Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial             
  assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have a single or a             
  program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend

416                                                                              11-08

  less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit
  requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Records relating to work performed and costs are kept by the Bureau. There is
  no fixed records schedule. Records for grants awarded to State and Local
  Governments will be maintained in accordance with the provisions of 43 CFR
  Part 12, Subpart C, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and
  Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments." Records for grants
  awarded to institutions of higher education and other nonprofit organizations
  will be maintained in accordance with the provisions of 43 CFR Part 12, Subpart
  F, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Agreements With
  Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other Nonprofit Organizations".
Account Identification:
  14-1109-0-1-302.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $3,500,000; FY 08 est $4,340,000; and FY 09 est $5,950,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Past partnership projects have run between $500 to $250,000. Average amounts
  run about $10,000 or less.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  BLM continues to maintain and expand partnerships in the Tread Lightly, Leave
  No Trace, Interpretive programming, Recreational Fishing, corridor management
  (rivers and trails), and numerous travel and tourism activities. BLM uses
  challenge cost share and cooperative conservation initiative grants whenever
  possible on projects of mutual benefit to rural communities, counties, and cities
  in the western United States for management of Public Lands.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  BLM's recreation program is generally guided by provisions in 43 CFR Part
  8000. A variety of public interest publications on these programs are available
  free of charge by contacting the appropriate State Office. Manuals providing
  basic program operational guidance for recreation (BLM Manual 8300 and
  8400) may be obtained by contacting the Washington Office.
Regional or Local Office:
  See Catalog Appendix IV for addresses.
Headquarters Office:
  Group Manager, Recreation Group, Bureau of Land Management (WO 250),
  1849 C St, NW., 302 LS, Washington, DC 20240- 9998. Telephone: (202) 452-
  5041. Please contact the specific BLM State Office where you wish to apply.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.blm.gov/nhp/index.htm.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Development of recreation facilities on BLM managed lands; cooperative visitor
  services to the general public using BLM managed lands; agreements to manage
  public land resources cooperatively; and assistance agreement to promote more
  effective management of caves on Public Lands.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Criteria used to select assistance proposals are based on their direct relationship
  to BLM land management and a balanced review including relevance to program
  objectives, merit and cost effectiveness.
15.226 PAYMENTS IN LIEU OF TAXES
   (PILT)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Payment for Entitlement Land, Public Law 97-258, as amended, 31 U.S.C.
  6901-6907.
OBJECTIVES:
  To compensate local taxing units (usually County governments) for the loss of
  taxes from Federally-owned and acquired lands. Payment amounts are
  determined by several codified formulas (U.S.C. 6901-6907) and is designed to
  supplement other Federal land revenue sharing payments that local units may be
  receiving.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments with Unrestricted Use; Direct Payments for Specified Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Payments made under Section 6902 of the Law may be used for any
  governmental purpose. Payments made under Sections 6904 and 6905 must be
  distributed to units and school districts that lost real property taxes because of
  the acquisition of lands by the Federal government.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Local units containing eligible acres of PILT entitlement land as defined in
  Section 6901 will receive automatic payment distribution as computed in
  accordance with Section 6903 of the Law.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  County governments in which Federal lands are located or have been acquired
