Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Distribution of Receipts Specialist, Bureau of Land Management BC- 621               
  Building 50, Denver Federal Center, Denver, CO 80225. Telephone: (303) 236-          
  7135.                                                                                
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.blm.gov.                                                                  
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  None.                                                                                
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  Not applicable.                                                                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  Not applicable.                                                                      
                                                                                       
15.228 NATIONAL FIRE PLAN - WILDLAND URBAN                                             
                                                                                       
INTERFACE COMMUNITY FIRE ASSISTANCE                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR                                
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2001,          
  Title IV, Public Law 106-291.                                                        
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To implement the National Fire Plan and assist communities at risk from              
  catastrophic wildland fires by providing assistance in the following areas:          
  Provide community programs that develop local capability including;                  
  assessment and planning, mitigation activities, and community and homeowner          
  education and action; plan and implement hazardous fuels reduction activities,       
  including the training, monitoring or maintenance associated with such               
  hazardous fuels reduction activities, on federal land, or on adjacent nonfederal     
  land for activities that mitigate the threat of catastrophic fire to communities and 
  natural resources in high risk areas; enhance local and small business               
  employment opportunities for rural communities; enhance the knowledge and            
  fire protection capability of rural fire districts by providing assistance in        
  education and training, protective clothing and equipment purchase, and              
  mitigation methods on a cost share basis.                                            
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants; Use of Property, Facilities, and Equipment; Provision of             
  Specialized Services; Advisory Services and Counseling; Dissemination of             
  Technical Information; Training.                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Hazard reduction activities are restricted to Federal lands, or adjacent nonfederal  
  land for activities that benefit resources on Federal land. Most of these lands are  
  located in the Western United States and Alaska. Assistance can be used for          
  helping BLM support community based efforts to address defensible space and          
  fuels management issues to support outreach and education efforts associated         
  with fuels management and risk reduction activities and to increase the              
  effectiveness of rural fire protection. Funding is highly variable each fiscal year. 
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  States and local governments at risk as published in the Federal Register, Indian    
  Tribes, public and private education institutions, nonprofit organizations, and      
  rural fire departments serving a community with a population of 10,000 or less       
  in the wildland/urban interface.                                                     
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  States and local governments at risk as published in the Federal Register, Indian    
  Tribes, public and private education institutions, nonprofit organizations, and      
                                                                                       
  rural fire departments serving a community with a population of 10,000 or less

                                                                                       
  in the wildland/urban interface.

                                                                                       
Credentials/Documentation:

  For grants awarded, cost will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular          
                                                                                       
  No. A-87 for State and Local Governments; OMB Circular No. A-21 for

                                                                                       
  educational institutions; OMB Circular No. A-122 for nonprofit organizations;

                                                                                       
  and Federal Acquisition Regulation Subpart 31.2 for private foundations, firms,

                                                                                       
  individuals, and other nonprofits excluded from coverage under OMB Circular          
  No. A-122.

                                                                                       
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  Coordinate cooperative project proposals with BLM State or District Offices.

                                                                                       
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.

                                                                                       
Application Procedure:

                                                                                       
  Wildland Urban Interface Community Assistance is coordinated by Bureau State

                                                                                       
  and Field Offices. No specific application forms apply, except for grants

                                                                                       
  awarded, the standard application forms furnished by the Federal agency and

                                                                                       
  required by 43 CFR Part 12, Subpart C, "Uniform Administrative Requirements

                                                                                       
  for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments," and

                                                                                       
  43 CFR Part 12, Subpart F, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants

                                                                                       
  and Agreements With Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other

                                                                                       
  Nonprofit Organizations", must be used by this program.

                                                                                       
Award Procedure:

  Wildland Urban Interface community projects are reviewed at State level and

  funding recommendations are made through each State's annual work plan. Final        
  budget approvals rest with the State Director or Field Office Manager.               
418                                                                              11-08

Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Wildland Urban Interface community assistance and rural fire projects are
  approved through the Bureau budget cycle that normally requires at least one
  year to receive funding.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program may include matching requirements, for example: Rural fire
  departments must have the capability to meet cost share at a minimum of 10
  percent, which may include in-kind services.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  No specific restrictions, however, most projects are funded on a year-to-year
  basis and funds are expended during a particular fiscal year.
Reports:
  Performance monitoring schedules and/or progress reports will be developed in
  consultation with the applicant, but at a minimum will take place at least once
  during the life of a project.
Audits:
  Projects will be audited at least once during life cycle. In accordance with the
  provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of States, Local Governments,
  and Non-Profit Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial
  assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have a single or a
  program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend
  less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit
  requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Records relating to work performed and costs are kept by the Bureau. There is
  no fixed records schedule. Records for grants awarded to State, Local and Indian
  Tribal Governments will be maintained in accordance with the provisions of 43
  CFR Part 12, Subpart C, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and
  Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments." Records for grants
  awarded to institutions of higher education and other nonprofit organizations
  will be maintained in accordance with the provisions of 43 CFR Part 12, Subpart
  F, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Agreements With
  Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other Nonprofit Organizations".
Account Identification:
  14-1125-0-1-302.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $8,100,000; FY 08 est $7,360,000; and FY 09 est $1,757,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $1,000 to $50,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  None.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  BLM's wildland urban interface community assistance program is guided by the
  provisions of the National Fire Plan. A variety of public information on this plan
  is available by contacting the appropriate State Office or the National
  Interagency Fire Center's web site at: http://www.nifc.gov.
Regional or Local Office:
  See Catalog Appendix IV for addresses.
Headquarters Office:
  Chief, Community Protection and Assistance, Planning-Resources Group,
  Bureau of Land Management (FA-130), National Interagency Fire Center, 3833
  S. Development Ave, Boise, ID 83705. Telephone: (208) 387-5150.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.blm.gov/nhp/index.htm; http://www.nifc.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  15.242, National Fire Plan - Rural Fire Assistance.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  (1) Assessment and planning for reducing wildland fire risks to communities and
  their associated watersheds and natural resources. (2) Hazard fuel reduction
  activities and projects that mitigate wildfire hazards to communities and natural
  resources. (3) Implementation of programs, workshops or training that distribute
  educational materials and develop partnerships between stakeholders in wildland
  urban interface communities. (4) Assistance and technical transfer of
  information that promotes homeowner's and rural fire department's action to
  implement community wildfire mitigation activities. (5) Wildland fire assistance
  to rural fire departments through mitigation education, training, and providing
  necessary safety equipment.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Criteria used to select assistance proposals are based on their ability to reduce
  the risk of wildland fire to community values and to increase the capabilities of
  rural fire organizations, in the vicinity of Federal lands.
15.229 WILD HORSE AND BURRO RESOURCE
MANAGEMENT
