FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                    
  BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR                            
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                     
  Wild Free-Roaming Horses and Burros Act of 1971, Public Law 92-195, as           
  amended; Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976, Public Law 94-          
  579; Public Rangelands Improvement Act of 1978, Public Law 95-514.               
OBJECTIVES:                                                                        
  The goal of the Wild Horses and Burro Resource Management program is to          
  achieve and maintain healthy, viable wild horse and burro populations on the     
  public lands.                                                                    
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                               
  Project Grants; Use of Property, Facilities, and Equipment; Provision of         
  Specialized Services; Advisory Services and Counseling; Dissemination of         
  Technical Information; Training.                                                 
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                         
  Projects are designated to manage and protect wild free-roaming horses and       
  burros to achieve and maintain a thriving natural ecological balance on the      
  public lands. Project assistance can be used in researching for improved         
  censusing techniques and fertility control methods; and adopting excess animals  
  removed from the range.                                                          
Applicant Eligibility:                                                             
  Anyone/general public.                                                           
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                           
  All Public Land users.                                                           
Credentials/Documentation:                                                         
  For grants awarded, cost will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular      
  No. A-87 for State and Local Governments; OMB Circular No. A-21 for              
  educational institutions; OMB Circular No. A-122 for nonprofit organizations;    
  and Federal Acquisition Regulation Subpart 31.2 for private foundations, firms,  
  individuals, and other nonprofits excluded from coverage under OMB Circular      
  No. A-122.                                                                       
Preapplication Coordination:                                                       
  Coordinate cooperative project proposals with BLM State or District Offices.     
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                         
Application Procedure:                                                             
  Offers of Assistance are coordinated by Bureau State and Field Offices. No       
  specific application forms apply, except for grants awarded, the standard        
  application forms furnished by the Federal agency and required by 43 CFR Part    
  12, Subpart C, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and               
  Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments," and 43 CFR Part 12,      
  Subpart F, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Agreements        
  With Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other Nonprofit            
  Organizations", must be used by this program.                                    
Award Procedure:                                                                   
  Projects are reviewed at State level and funding recommendations are made        
  through each State's annual work plan. Final budget approvals rest with the State
  Director or Field Office Manager.                                                
Deadlines:                                                                         
  None.                                                                            
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

  Projects are approved through the Bureau budget cycle that normally requires at

                                                                                   
  least one year to receive funding.

Appeals:                                                                           
  Not applicable.                                                                  
Renewals:                                                                          
  Not applicable.                                                                  
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                 
  This program has no statutory matching funds requirement, however, applicants    
  offering matching funds are more likely to be funded.                            
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                             
  No specific restrictions, however, most projects are funded on a year to year    
  basis and funds are expended during a particular fiscal year.                    
Reports:                                                                           
  Performance monitoring schedules and/or progress reports will be developed in    
  consultation with the applicant, but at a minimum will take place at least once  
  during the life of a project.                                                    
Audits:                                                                            
  Projects will be audited at least once during life cycle. Grants awarded to      
  educational institutions and nonprofit organizations are subject to the audit    
  requirements of 43 CFR Part 12, Subpart F, "Uniform Administrative               
  Requirements for Grants and Agreements With Institutions of Higher Education,    
  Hospitals, and Other Nonprofit Organizations". In accordance with the            
  provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June 27, 2003), "Audits of        
  States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations," nonfederal entities    
  that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have 
  a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities
  that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal  
  audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.         
Records:                                                                           
  Records relating to work performed and costs are kept by the Bureau. There is    


                                                                              11-08
  no fixed records schedule. Records for grants awarded to State and Local
  Governments will be maintained in accordance with the provisions of 43 CFR
  Part 12, Subpart C, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and
  Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments." Records for grants
  awarded to institutions of higher education and other nonprofit organizations
  will be maintained in accordance with the provisions of 43 CFR Part 12, Subpart
  F, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Agreements With
  Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other Nonprofit Organizations".
Account Identification:
  14-1109-0-1-302.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $1,490,093; FY 08 est $2,950,000; and FY 09 est $5,700,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Past partnership projects have run between $10,000 to $400,000. Average
  amounts run about $60,000 or less.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  The BLM has made significant progress in achieving appropriate management
  levels of wild horses and burros on public lands. The BLM implemented close
  coordination with its advisory board and interested non-profits to gain
  efficiencies in the adoption program. BLM is continuing the investigation of
  fertility control, which has shown promise as a population control tool.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  The wild horse and burro program is generally guided by provisions in 43 CFR
  Part 4700. BLM Manuals and Handbooks 4700 - 4770 provide basic program
  operational guidance for the wild horses and burro program and may be obtained
  by accessing the BLM library through the internet.
Regional or Local Office:
  See Catalog Appendix IV for addresses.
Headquarters Office:
  Group Manager, Wild Horses and Burros Group, Bureau of Land Management
  (WO 260), 1849 C St, N.W., 402 LS, Washington, DC 20240-9998. Telephone:
  (202) 452-5073. Please contact the specific BLM State Office where you wish
  to apply.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.wildhorseandburro.blm.gov
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Development of the National Wild Horse and Burro Foundation working in
  partnership with the Bureau of Land Management to ensure healthy wild horses
  and burros through the successful placement of excess animals for future
  generations. BLM's continued research into population level fertility control
  along with research on population census techniques. Cooperative program with
  the States to provide for long-term holding of excess wild horses on private
  lands.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Criteria used to select assistance proposals are based on their direct relationship
  to BLM's management of wild horse and burro herds and a balanced review
  including relevance to program objectives, merit and cost effectiveness.
15.230 INVASIVE AND NOXIOUS PLANT MANAGEMENT
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT, DEPARTMENT OF INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Federal Noxious Weed Act of 1974, 7 U.S.C. 2814; Watershed Restoration and
  Enhancement Agreements, 16 U.S.C. 1011, Public Law 104-208, Section 124,
  as amended, Public Law 105-277, Section 135; and Executive Order 13112,
  Invasive Species, February 3, 1999.
OBJECTIVES:
  To encourage interested State and local governments and Federal agencies to
  work together to inventory, manage, educate, reduce the spread of, and prevent
  the further invasion and establishment of noxious, invasive weeds, and other
  species. These entities will develop and implement Integrated Pest Management
  Plans to develop and implement projects that foster consultation and cooperation
  among stakeholders, interested parties, and the public and to organize, finalize,
  and develop projects to implement integrated pest management plans for
  invasive species within a specific geographic area.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements); Advisory Services and Counseling;
  Training.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds may be used on public, State county, and private lands for approved
  projects that prioritize and target undesirable plant species or group of species to
  be controlled or contained within a specific geographic area; describe the
  intergrated pest management system to be used to control or contain the targeted
  undesirable invasive species or groups of species; and detail the means of
  implementing the integrated pest management system, define the duties of the
  Federal agency and the State agency in prosecuting that method, and establish a
  timeframe for the initiation and completion of the tasks specified in the
                                                                                     419
