  integrated management system.                                                     
Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  State and local governments.                                                      
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                            
  Anyone/General public.                                                            
Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  None.                                                                             
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  Coordinate cooperative project proposals with Bureau of Land Management           
  local State or District office for more information and local requirements. This  
  program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                               
Application Procedure:                                                              
  A Standard Form 424, Application for Federal Assistance, Standards Form           
  424A, Budget Information for Non-Construction Programs, Standard Form             
  424B, Assurances for Non-Construction Programs, and a written proposals

  should be submitted through Grants.gov or via hardcopy to the project office and

  include: a title, objectives, timeframe, and a budget breakdown as specified in

                                                                                    
  the funding opportunity announcement. No State plan is required with this         
  application.                                                                      
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  Projects are reviewed at the Bureau of Land Management State and District         
  Office level and funding recommendations are made through the State's annual      
  work plan. Final budget approvals rest with the State Director.                   
Deadlines:                                                                          
  The deadline will be published in the Grants.gov announcement.                    
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  Most awards are anticipated within 90 days or less after the announcement         
  closes.                                                                           
Appeals:                                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                   
Renewals:                                                                           
  Not applicable.                                                                   
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  This program has no statuatory formula requirements. However, applicant's

                                                                                    
  matching funds are encouraged and those projects are more likely to be funded.

                                                                                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  No specific retrictions for most projects, however, most projects are awarded for

                                                                                    
  a five year period and funded on a year-by-year basis and funds are expended

                                                                                    
  during a particular fiscal year.

                                                                                    
Reports:

                                                                                    
  Recipients of funding are required to submit quarterly financial status reports

                                                                                    
  using Standard Form 269, Financial Status Report, and quarterly, semi-annually,

                                                                                    
  or annual performance reports 30 days following the end of the reporting period.

                                                                                    
  Final performance and financial status reports are due 120 days after the end of

                                                                                    
  grant performance.                                                                
Audits:                                                                             
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June        
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"    
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance $500,000 (for fiscal years   
  ending December 1, 2003) or more a year in Federal awards will have a single or   
  program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend   
  less than $500,000 (for fiscal years ending after December 1, 2003) a year in     
  Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except   
  as noted in Circular No. A-133.                                                   
Records:                                                                            
  Records are required to be maintained for three years following submission of     
  the final expenditure report.                                                     
Account Identification:                                                             
  14-1109-0-1-302.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  FY 07 $2,718,000; FY 08 est $2,800,000; and FY 09 est $2,900,000.

                                                                                    
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

                                                                                    
  The previous fiscal year average was about $20,000.

                                                                                    
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

  The State and the Bureau of Land Management have worked together with             
  private and non-federal landowners to prevent, contain, and control the spread of 
                                                                                    
  noxious weeds. Because the plants move rapdily from one owner's land to

                                                                                    
  another, joint efforts to eradicate, contain or control noxious weeds reduces

                                                                                    
  adverse impacts on public and private lands and reduce costs to all land owners.

                                                                                    
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

                                                                                    
  Information about the Bureau of Land Management invasive and noxious plant

                                                                                    
  management program can be found at

                                                                                    
  http://www.blm.gov/wo/st/en/prog/more/weeds.html.

                                                                                    
Regional or Local Office:

                                                                                    
  See Catalog Appendix IV for addresses of Bureau of Land Management State

                                                                                    
  Offices.

                                                                                    
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Senior Weeds Specialist, Division of Rangeland Resources, Bureau of Land          
  Management, 1849 C Street, MS: 201LS, Washington, DC 20240. Telephone:            
  (202) 452-5084.                                                                   
Web Site Address:

420                                                                           11-08

  For general information see website
  http://www.blm.gov/wo/st/en/prog/more/weeds/html.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Past projects funded encouraged the State and the Bureau of Land Management
  to work together to control, manage and eradicate undesirable invasive species
  on Federal, State, and private lands. By working together entire areas are treated
  to control and prevent the spread of noxious or undesirable plants and other
  invasive species within the close proximity of public lands.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  General criteria used to select assistance proposals are based on their direct
  relationship to federal lands and a balanced review including relevance to
  program objectives, merit and cost effectiveness.
15.231 FISH, WILDLIFE AND PLANT CONSERVATION
RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Federal Land Policy and Management Act, as amended, Public Law 94-579; The
  Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended, Public Law 93-205; Sikes Act,
  Public Law 93-452; Fish and Wildlife Conservation and Water Resources
  Developments Coordination Act, as amended, Public Law 85-624; Oceans Act
  of 1992, Public law 102-587; The Wyden Amendment, 16 U.S.C. 1011(a), as
  Amended by Public Law 105-277, Section 136.
OBJECTIVES:
  To manage fish, wildlife and plant conservation resources on the public lands
  administered by the Bureau of Land Management.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants; Use of Property, Facilities, and Equipment; Provision of
  Specialized Services; Advisory Services and Counseling; Dissemination of
  Technical Information; Training.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Projects are primarily conducted on lands administered by the BLM but may
  also be conducted on other public or private lands. Most of these lands are
  located in the Western United States and Alaska. Assistance can be used to help
  protect, restore, and enhance fish, wildlife, and plant conservation resources and
  to provide related public contact/education opportunities. No regular
  discretionary fund is available. Funding is highly variable each fiscal year.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Anyone/general public.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  All Public Land users.
Credentials/Documentation:
  For grants awarded, cost will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular
  No. A-87 for State and Local Governments; OMB Circular No. A-21 for
  educational institutions; OMB Circular No. A-122 for nonprofit organizations;
  and Federal Acquisition Regulation Subpart 31.2 for private foundations, firms,
  individuals, and other nonprofits excluded from coverage under OMB Circular
  No. A-122.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Coordinate cooperative project proposals with BLM State or District/Field
  Offices. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Offers of Assistance are coordinated by Bureau State and District/Field Offices.
  No specific application forms apply, except for grants awarded, the standard
  application forms furnished by the Federal agency and required by 43 CFR Part
  12, Subpart C, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and
  Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments," and 43 CFR Part 12,
  Subpart F, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Agreements
  With Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other Nonprofit
  Organizations", must be used by this program.
Award Procedure:
  Projects are reviewed at State level and funding recommendations are made
  through each State's annual work plan. Final budget approvals rest with the State
  Director or District/Field Office Manager.
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Projects are approved through the Bureau budget cycle that normally requires at
  least one year to receive funding.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory matching funds requirement, however, applicants
  offering matching funds are more likely to be funded.
