Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  No specific restrictions, however, most projects are funded on a year to year      
  basis and funds are expended during a particular fiscal year.                      
Reports:                                                                             
  Performance monitoring schedules and/or progress reports will be developed in      
  consultation with the applicant, but at a minimum will take place at least once    
  annually and upon completion a final project report.                               
Audits:                                                                              
  Projects will be audited at least once during life cycle. Grants awarded to        
  educational institutions and nonprofit organizations are subject to the audit      
  requirements of 43 CFR Part 12, Subpart F, "Uniform Administrative                 
  Requirements for Grants and Agreements With Institutions of Higher Education,      
  Hospitals, and Other Nonprofit Organizations". In accordance with the              
  provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June 27, 2003), "Audits of          
  States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations," nonfederal entities      
  that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have   
  a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities  
  that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal    
  audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.           
Records:                                                                             
  Records relating to work performed and costs are kept by the Bureau. There is      
  no fixed records schedule. Records for grants awarded to State and Local           
  Governments will be maintained in accordance with the provisions of 43 CFR         
  Part 12, Subpart C, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and            
  Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments." Records for grants         
  awarded to institutions of higher education and other nonprofit organizations      
  will be maintained in accordance with the provisions of 43 CFR Part 12, Subpart    
  F, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Agreements With             
  Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other Nonprofit Organizations".   
Account Identification:                                                              
  14-1109-0-1-302.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  FY 07 $4,000,000; FY 08 est $2,274,000; and FY 09 est $3,125,000.                  
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  Past partnership projects have ranged from $1,000 to $100,000. Average             
  amounts run about $10,000 or less.                                                 
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  BLM continues to maintain and expand partnerships in the management of fish,       
  wildlife and botany resources. BLM uses challenge cost share and cooperative       
  conservation initiative grants whenever possible on projects of mutual benefit to  
  rural communities, counties, and cities in the western United States for           
  management of Public Lands.                                                        
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  BLM's fish, wildlife and botany program is generally guided by provisions in 43    
  CFR Part 6000. A variety of public interest publications on these programs are     
  available free of charge by contacting the appropriate State Office. Manuals       
  providing basic program operational guidance for recreation (BLM Manual            
  6500) and may be obtained by contacting the Washington Office.                     
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  See Catalog Appendix IV for addresses.                                             
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Group Manager, Fish, Wildlife and Botany Group, Bureau of Land Management          
  (WO 230), 1849 C St, N.W., LSB 204, Washington, DC 20240-9998.                     
  Telephone: (202) 452-5133. Please contact the specific BLM State Office where      
  you wish to apply.                                                                 
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.blm.gov/nhp/index.htm                                                   
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  None.                                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  Projects funded include vegetation, rare and threatened and endangered plants      
  and botanical surveys; fish and wildlife survey and monitoring; habitat use and    
  condition surveys; habitat improvement or protection projects.                     
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Criteria used to select assistance proposals are based on their direct relationship
  to BLM land management and a balanced review including relevance to program        
  objectives, merit and cost effectiveness.                                          
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
15.232 WILDLAND FIRE RESEARCH AND STUDIES

                                                                                     
PROGRAM                                                                              
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR                              
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Federal Land Policy and Management Act, as amended, Public Law 94-579; The         
  Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2005, Division E, Department of the Interior    
  and Related Appropriations Act of 2005, Title I and Title 4, Public Law 108-       
  447. The Joint Fire Science Program authorization is in the Department of the      
  Interior and Related Agencies Appropriation Act of 1998, Public Law 106-291        
  and funded yearly.                                                                 


                                                                                11-08
OBJECTIVES:
  To encourage interested parties to perform research and studies pertaining to
  wildland fire and resource management, to develop products and tools for all
  levels of decision making to meet the objectives of the National Fire Plan, and to
  seek information to improve decision making in wildland fire management. In
  addition to generally funded wildland fire research and studies there are two
  separate research programs; Climate applications with the National Climate Data
  Center: The purpose of the program is to develop products and tools for wildland
  fire resource management utilizing the climate data archives of the National
  Climate Data Centers. The National Climate Data Center is authorized to
  describe the climate of the United States. For example, the Western Regional
  Climate Center is one of the six regional centers. Western Regional Climate
  Center is the archive of interagency fire weather station observations. The
  objectives for the National Climate Data Center and its regional centers are to
  perform basic climate and ecosystem studies pertaining to wildland fire and
  resource management, to develop climate and ecosystem products and tools for
  all levels of decision-making. The Joint Fire Science Program: This program
  seeks research proposals that respond to its announcements for proposals that
  seek information on seven critical wildland fire and fuels issues: These issues
  are: Wildand fuels and inventory mapping; Effects of fuels treatments;
  Scheduling of fuels treatments; Monitoring and evaluation of fuels treatments;
  Evaluating post fire stabilization and rehabilitation projects; Aircraft-based
  remote sensing; and Regional and local offices.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds may be used for approved projects that address wildland fire management
  needs of federal and local government land managers. Joint Fire Science
  Program applicants must clearly identify a federal cooperator. Successfully
  awarded projects can only be funded through a federal cooperator.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Anyone/General Public.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Anyone/General Public.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Coordinate cooperative project proposals with program leaders and the local
  State or District Officers. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O.
  12372.
Application Procedure:
  A Standard Form 424, Application for Federal Assistance, Standard Form 424A,
  Budget Information for Non-Construction Programs, Standard Form 424B,
  Assurances for Non-Construction Programs, and a written proposal should be
  submitted through Grants.gov or via hardcopy to the project office and include:
  a title, objectives, timeframe, a budget breakdown, and any other requirements
  specified in the funding opportunity announcement. No State Plan is required
  with this application.
Award Procedure:
  Projects are reviewed at the National and State level and funding
  recommendations are made through National and State's annual work plan.
  Final budget approvals rest with the National Office and State Director. For the
  Joint Fire Science Program all applications are peer-reviewed. The ten person
  Joint Fire Science Program Governing Board will analyze peer review comments
  and make all funding decisions.
Deadlines:
  The deadline will be published in the Grants.gov announcement. Applications
  for projects for the Joint Fire Science program will also be posted at
  www.firescience.gov generally in the fall of each year.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Most awards are anticipated within 90 to 180 days or less after the
  announcement closes.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statuatory formula requirements. However, the applicant's
  matching funds are encouraged and those projects are more likely to be funded.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  No specific retrictions for most projects, however, most projects are funded on a
  year to year basis and funds are expended during a particular fiscal year. For the
  Joint Fire Science Program, projects are generally funded for no more than three
  years. Most projects funded are awarded in one lump sum at the start of the
  project; however some projects are occasionally funded year-by-year.
Reports:
  Recipients of funding are required to submit quarterly financial status reports
  using Standard Form 269, Financial Status Report, and quarterly, semi-annual,
  or annual performance reports 30 days following the end of the reporting period.
  Final performance and financial status reports are due 120 days after the end
                                                                                  421
