  date of grant performance.                                                        
Audits:                                                                             
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June

  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"

                                                                                    
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance $500,000 (for fiscal years

  ending December 1, 2003) or more a year in Federal awards will have a single or   
  a program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that        
  expend less than $500,000 (for fiscal years ending after December 1, 2003) a      
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,  
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.                                            
Records:                                                                            
  Records are required to be maintained for three years following submission of     
  the final expenditure report.                                                     
Account Identification:                                                             
  14-1125-0-1-302.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  FY 07 $231,000; FY 08 est $230,000; and FY 09 est $230,000.                       
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  The previous fiscal year average was about $60,000 and for the Joint Fire         
  Science Program was $350,000.                                                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  Program accomplishments provided new information and tools to improve             
  decision-making in wildland fire management. Program accomplishments              
  inlcude Climate and Ecosystem studies that benefit fire and resource              
  management programs both directly and through the inherently interagency          
  nature of many of the climate-related projects. Projects have had direct benefit  
  to, among others, fire management, Predictive Services, meteorologists, fuels     
  analysts, intelligence officers, fire behavior analysts, fire specialists, fire   
  planners, resource managers and State and local government leaders. Specific      
  accomplishments include user access to Western Regional Climate Center            
  Remote Automated Weather System data archive through field-requested              
  queries; lightning climatologies; comparisons of drought indices for fire         
  management; operational 15-day fire danger forecasts; operations of an            
  interagency regional modeling facility; model output statistics products; real-   
  time drought assessment for rangelands; and quality-checked, complete Remote      
  Automated Weather System weather data sets for the Fire Program Analysis          
  effort. The Joint Fire Science Program funded projects are helping to improve     
  the overall effectiveness of wildland fire management by providing the scientific 
  information and tools necessary to integrate fire into land and resource          
  management plans and their implementation. Researchers and managers have          
  communicated results and new tools to on-the-ground users through published       
  papers, field trips with managers, participation in workshops and symposia,       
  training sessions, and the development of Web pages for posting current and       
  relevant information, and other technology transfer media.                        
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  Information about the National Fire Plan can be found at website:                 
  http://www.forestsandrangelands.gov/. Western Regional Climate Center             
  reports and publications pertaining to projects and accomplishments are posted    
  on http://cefa.dri.edu. Joint Fire Science information, including announcements   
  for proposals, project information, and literature can be found at website        
  www.firescience.gov/.                                                             
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  See Catalog Appendix IV for addresses of BLM State Offices.                       
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Group Manager, Planning and Resources Group, Bureau of Land Management,           
  Office of Fire and Aviation, 3833 S. Development Ave., Boise, ID 83705.           
  Telephone: (208)387-5153. For the Joint Fire Science Program: Program             
  Manager, Joint Fire Science Program, 3833 S. Development Ave., Boise, ID          
  83705. Telephone: (208) 387-5349.                                                 
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  For general information see website http://www.forestsandrangelands.gov/. For     
  information on the Western Regional Climate Center website see                    
  http://cefa.dri.edu/. Joint Fire Science Program information may be found at      
  http://www.firescience.gov/.                                                      
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  None.                                                                             
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  Development of Web Access to Remote Automated Weather System Data and             
  Products; Development of US Operational Fire Danger 15-Day Forecasts; Role        
  of Climate in Prescribed Fire; Understanding Drought for BLM Business; Real-      
  time Drought Assessment for Rangelands. Reports are available at                  
  http://cefa.dri.edu/.                                                             
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                   
  General criteria used to select assistance proposals are based on their direct    
  relationship to federal wildland fire management, qualifications of principal     
  investigator and institution, and a balanced review including relevance to        
  program objectives, merit and cost effectiveness. Joint Fire Science Program      
  proposals will be reviewed for relevancy in relation to the posted announcement   
  for proposals task statement, scientific methods and study design, science        
  deliverables, collaboration/leverage, and administrative adequacy. Successful     


422                                                                           11-08

  proposals will provide a strong science delivery and application plan that clearly
  demonstrates the use of both passive and active technology transfer methods.
15.233 FORESTS AND WOODLANDS RESOURCE
MANAGEMENT
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976, 43 U.S.C. 1737,(b), Public
  Law 94-579, as amended; and Stewardship End Result Contracting Projects, 16
  U.S.C. 2104, Public Law 108-7, Consolidated Appropriation Resolution, 2003,
  Division F, Title III, Section 323 as amended Public Law 105-277, Department
  of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999, Division A,
  Section 101(e), Title III, Section 347, as amended Public Law 106-113, Making
  Consolidated Appropriations For the Fiscal Year Ending September 30, 2000,
  and For Other Purposes, Division B, Section 1000(a)(3), Title III, Section 341
  and Public Law 107-63, Department of the Interior and Related Agencies
  Appropriations Act, 2002, Title III, Section 332.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide financial assistance, through grants or cooperative agreements, to
  public or private organizations for the improvement of forests on public lands.
  Improvements will include the maintenance of forest health, forest regeneration,
  restoration, rehabilitation, insect and disease control, forest development,
  implementation of stewardship projects and providing for biomass utilization of
  public lands.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements); Advisory Services and Counseling;
  Training.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Projects are limited to forestry projects on public lands administered by the
  Bureau of Land Management located mostly in the Western United States and
  Alaska.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Anyone/General public.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Anyone/General public.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Coordinate cooperative forestry project proposals with Bureau of Land
  Management local State or District office for more information and local
  requirements. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  A Standard Form 424, Application for Federal Assistance, Standard Form 424A,
  Budget Information for Non-Construction Programs, Standard Form 424B,
  Assurances for Non-Construction Programs, and a written proposal should be
  submitted through Grants.gov or via hardcopy to the project office and include:
  a title, objectives, timeframe, and a budget breakdown as specified in the
  funding opportunity announcement. No State plan is required with this
  application.
Award Procedure:
  Projects are reviewed at the Bureau of Land Management State and District
  Office level and funding recommendations are made through the State's annual
  work plan. Final budget approvals rest with the State Director.
Deadlines:
  The deadline will be published in the Grants.gov announcement for each project.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Award time varies depending on the type and complexity of the project. Most
  awards are anticipated within 90 days or less after the announcement closes.
  Further information will be available for each project at the time the funding
  opportunity announcement is posted on www.grants.gov and may be obtained by
  contacting the point of contact listed in the funding opportunity announcement.
Appeals:
  None. Final award decisions are not subject to appeal; however, the Bureau of
  Land Management will provide all applicants with information on why their
  proposals was not selected for award.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula requirements. However, applicant's
  matching funds are encouraged and those projects are more likely to be funded.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  No specific restrictions for most projects, however, most projects are awarded
  for a five year period and funded on a year-by-year basis and funds are expended
  during a particular fiscal year.
Reports:
  Recipients of funding are required to submit quarterly financial status reports
  using form Standard Form 269, Financial Status Report, and quarterly, semi-
  annual, or annual performance reports 30 days following the end of the reporting
