  period. Final performance and financial status reports are due 120 days after the
  end date of grant performance.                                                   
Audits:                                                                            
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June       
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonproft Organizations,"    
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance $500,000 (for fiscal years  
  ending December 1, 2003) or more a year in Federal awards will have a single or  
  a program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that       
  expend less than $500,000 (for fiscal years ending after December 1, 2003) a     
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, 
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.                                           
Records:                                                                           
  State, local and Indian Tribal governments shall maintain project records in     
  accordance with 43 CFR 12.82. All other recipients shall maintain project        
  records in accordance with 43 CFR 12.953.                                        
Account Identification:                                                            
  14-1109-0-1-302.                                                                 
Obligations:                                                                       
  FY 07 $45,000; FY 08 est $500,000; and FY 09 est $1,000,000.                     
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                         
  Past partnership projects have run between $10,000 to $250,000. Average          
  amounts run about $100,000 or less.                                              
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                           
  BLM continues to maintain and expand partnerships to include funding for         
  continued support of collaborative efforts to build community capacity and       
  support for ecological restoration efforts in forest and woodlands. The public   
  and BLM benefit from its support with partners in heightening public             
  understanding of the social and economic, as well as environmental, aspects of   
  ecosystem restoration and maintenance.                                           
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                           
  BLM's Forestry program is generally guided by provisions in 43 CFR Part 5000.    
  A variety of public interest publications on these programs are available free of
  charge by contacting the appropriate State Office. Manuals providing basic       
  program operational guidance for Forestry are found in BLM Manuals 500 series    
  and may be obtained by contacting the Washington Office.                         
Regional or Local Office:                                                          
  See Catalog Appendix IV for addresses of Bureau of Land Mangement State          
  Offices.                                                                         
Headquarters Office:                                                               
  Division Chief, Forest and Woodland Management, Bureau of Land                   
  Management (WO 270), 1849 C St., N.W, 204 LS, Washington, DC 20240.              
  Telephone: (202)452-0316.                                                        
Web Site Address:                                                                  
  http://www.blm.gov/wo/st/en/prog/more/forests_and_woodland.html.                 
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                  
  None.                                                                            
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                       
  Stewardship projects that removed vegetation to promote healthy forest stands    
  and reduced fire hazards. Projects that promoted an integrated approach that     
  included local community participation in developing strategies for biomass      
  utilization, recognizing the connections beetween biomass utilization and forest 
  restoration, and encouraged sustainable development through a variety of         
  enterprises at different and appropriate scales. Projects that cooperatively     
  supported common goals and interests in managing, developing and protecting      
  federal and private land and water resources in an environmentally and           
  economically sound manner.                                                       
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                  
  General criteria used to select assistance proposals are based on their direct   
  relationship to Federal lands and a balanced review including relevance to       
  program objectives, merit and cost effectiveness.                                
                                                                                   
15.234 SECURE RURAL SCHOOLS AND COMMUNITY                                          
                                                                                   
SELF-DETERMINATION                                                                 
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                    
  BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR                            
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                     
  Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act of 2000, Public        
  Law 106-393, Title II.                                                           
OBJECTIVES:                                                                        
  To restore stability and predictability to the annual payments made to States and
  counties containing National Forest System lands and public domain lands         
  managed by the Bureau of Land Management for use by the counties for the         
  benefit of public schools, roads, and other purposes.                            
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                               
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                         
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                         
  Project funds shall be expended solely on projects that meet the requirements of 
  Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act of 2000, Public        
  Law 106-393, Title II. Project funds may be used for the purpose of entering into


                                                                              11-08
  and implementing cooperative agreements with willing Federal agencies, State
  and local governments, private and nonprofit entities, and landowners for
  protection of restoration, and enhancment of fish and wildlife habitat, and other
  resource objectives consistent with the purposes of the law on Federal land and
  on nonfederal land where projects would benefit these resources on Federal land.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State and local governments, public nonprofit institutions/organizations, other
  public institution/organization, private nonprofit institution/organization, other
  private institution/organization and landowners.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Anyone/General public.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  A Standard Form 424, Application for Federal Assistance, Standard Form 424A,
  Budget Information for Non-Construction Programs, Standard Form 424B,
  Assurances for Non-Construction Programs, and a written technical and cost
  proposal should be submitted through Grants.gov or via hardcopy to the project
  office and include: a title, objectives, timeframe, and a budget breakdown as
  specified in the funding opportunity announcement. Title II Project Application
  Information may be received from the BLM Western Oregon Districts or their
  websites. No State plan is required with this application.
Award Procedure:
  Bureau of Land Management District staff screen applications to ensure they
  meet project criteria. The projects are then forwarded to the Resource Advisory
  Committees whose members consider each project for funding and make
  recommendations to the Designated Federal Officials by Septembe 30 for each
  fiscal year. Final budget approvals rest with the delegated Bureau of Land
  Management District Managers.
Deadlines:
  The deadline will be published in the Grants.gov announcement for each project.
   Completed project application forms are due to the Designated Federal Officials
  by April 15 each year for funding requests in the following year.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Award time varies depending on the type and complexity of the project. Most
  awards are anticipated within 90 days or less after the announcement closes.
  Further information will be available for each project at the time the funding
  opportunity announcement is posted on www.grants.gov and may be obtained by
  contacting the point of contact listed in the funding opportunity announcement.
  Projects are approved by the delegated District Managers at their sole discretion.
   Within 30 days after making a rejection decision, the District Manager shall
  notify the Resource Advisory Committee in writing with the reasons for the
  rejection.
Appeals:
  None. Final award decisions are not subject to appeal; however, the Bureau of
  Land Management will provide all applicants with information on why their
  proposal was not selected for award.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula requirements. However, applicant's
  matching funds are encouraged and may be looked upon more favorably by the
  Resource Advisory Committees.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  No specific restrictions for most projects, however, most projects are funded on
  a year-to-year basis and funds are expended during a particular fiscal year.
  Funds that are not expended during a particular fiscal year may be carried
  forward to the next fiscal year.
Reports:
  Recipients of funding are required to submit quarterly financial status reports
  using Standard Form 269, Financial Status Report, and quarterly, semi-annual,
  or annual performance reports 30 days following the end of the reporting period.
  Final peformance and financial status reports are due 120 days after the end date
  of grant performance.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance $500,000 (for fiscal years
  ending December 1, 2003) or more a year in Federal awards will have a single or
  a program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that
  expend less than $500,000 (for fiscal years ending after December 1, 2003) a
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  State and local governments shall maintain project records in accordance with
  43 CFR 12.82. All other recipients shall maintain project records in accordance
  with 43 CFR 12.953.
Account Identification:
                                                                                  423
