PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                          
  Cooperative Agreements with local government and units of local governments,    
  has resulted in project selection for projects focused on wetlands preservation,
  regional and community park recreation opportunities, multi-use trail systems   
  for pedestrians & equestrians, preservation of native vegetation, evaluation,   
  monitoring and protection of threatened or endangered species, improved water   
  quality, protection of cultural sites, responsible fire management, and enhanced
  public safety.                                                                  
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                          
  All guidance for this program rests with the Southern Nevada Public Land        
  Management Act of 1998, as amended, Public Law 105-263, and can be found        
  on website http://www.nv.blm.gov/snplma/.                                       
Regional or Local Office:                                                         
  SNPLMA Business Manager, Nevada State Office, Bureau of Land                    
  Management, 1340 Financial Blvd., P.O. Box 12000, Reno, NV 89520-0006.          
  Telephone: (775)861-6613. E-mail: Sharon_Gore@blm.gov .                         
Headquarters Office:                                                              
  Division Chief, Lands, Realty, and Cadastral Survey, Bureau of Land             
  Management (WO 350), 1849 C St., N.W., 1000 LS, Washington DC 20240.            
  Telephone: (202)452-7779.                                                       
Web Site Address:                                                                 
  http://www.nv.blm.gov/snplma/.                                                  
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                 
  None.                                                                           
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                      
  Development of parks, trails and natural area and the Clark County Wetlands     
  Park, which serves as a regional wildlife preserve, affording education and     
  recreation, while providing habitat restoration and associated wildlife, water  
  systems, and wetlands protection, for a unique resource of the Las Vegas Valley;
  City of Las Vegas Centennial Hills Regional Park, with playgrounds, acquatic,   
  picnic, and amphitheatre areas, providing recreational opportunities for the    
  rapidly expanding northwest Las Vegas Valley area, and; Alamo Children's        
  Park, a basic community recreational park providing picnic and barbeque areas,  
  a volley ball court, and shaded playground area, for the small agricultural     
  community of Alamo, NV.                                                         
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                 
  Criteria used for selecting projects is outlined and defined in the Southern    
  Nevada Public Lands Management Act Implementation Agreement, based upon         
  the established Ranking and Rating Criteria, a balanced review including        
  relevance to program objectives, merit and cost effectiveness, and consistent   
  with the Southern Nevada Public Land Management Act of 1998, Public Law         
  105-263, as amended.                                                            
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
15.236 ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY AND PROTECTION                                       
RESOURCE MANAGEMENT                                                               
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                   
  BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR                           
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                    
  Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976, 43 U.S.C. 1737(b), Public       
  Law 94-579, as amended; Watershed Restoration and Enhancement Agreements,       
  16 U.S.C. 1011, Public Law 104-208, Section 124, as amended Public Law 105-     
  277, Section 135; and Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2008, Public Law       
  110-161, Division F, Section 125.                                               
OBJECTIVES:                                                                       
  To provide financial assistance, through grants or cooperative agreements as a  
  partnership to reduce or remove pollutants in the environment for the protection
  of human health, water and air reources; to restore damaged or degraded         
  watersheds; and to respond to changing climate. Objectives are implemented      
  through core programs such as: the Abandoned Mine Land program which            
  addresses physical safety hazards and water quality through restoration of      
  abandoned hardrock mines; the Hazard Management and Resource Restoration,       
  also known as Hazmat program, which remediates sites impacted by hazardous      
  materials and illegal activities, coordinates emergency response actions, and   
  ensures the Bureau of Land Management facilities and operations comply with     
  applicable environmental regulations; and the Soil, Water and Air (SWA)         
  program which develops guidance for land use plans and plan implementation.     
  The Soil, Water, and Air program also assures that fundamental resources are    
  inventoried and assessed, managed, and monitored to support appropriate         
                                                                                  
  management response to public land conditions.

                                                                                  
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:

                                                                                  
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements); Advisory Services and Counseling;

                                                                                  
  Dissemination of Technical Information; Training.

                                                                                  
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

                                                                                  
  Partnership projects are limited to public lands administered by the Bureau of

                                                                                  
  Land Management located mostly in the Western United States and Alaska.

                                                                                  
  Hazmat and Abandoned Mine Land projects will support: inventory and site

                                                                                  
  assessments; mitigation, remediation, and restoration activities; and

                                                                                  
  maintenance and monitoring of actions taken. Funded projects will protect

                                                                                  
  public health, safety and environmental resources by eliminating contamination



                                                                             11-08
  and hazards and restoring natural resources.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Anyone/General public.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Anyone/General public.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Coordinate cooperative rangeland project proposals with the Bureau of Land
  Management local State or District office for more information and local
  requirements. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  A Standard Form 424, Application for Federal Assistance, Standard Form 424A,
  Budget Information for Non-Construction Programs, Standard Form 424B,
  Assurances for Non-Construction Programs, and a written proposal should be
  submitted through Grants.gov or via hardcopy to the project office and include:
  a title, objectives, timeframe, and a budget breakdown as specified in the
  funding opportunity announcement. No State plan is required with this
  application.
Award Procedure:
  Projects are reviewed at the Bureau of Land Management State and District
  Office level and funding recommendations are made through the State's annual
  work plan. Final budget approvals rest with the State Director.
Deadlines:
  The deadline will be published in the Grants.gov announcement for each project.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Award time varies depending on the type and complexity of the project. Most
  awards are anticipated within 90 days or less after the announcement closes.
  Further information will be available for each project at the time the funding
  opportunity announcement is posted on www.grants.gov and may be obtained by
  contacting the point of contact listed in the funding opportunity announcement.
Appeals:
  None. Final award decisions are not subject to appeal; however, the Bureau of
  Land Management will provide all applications with information on why their
  proposal was not selected for award.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula matching requirements. However,
  applicant's matching funds or in-kind services are encouraged and those projects
  are more likely to be funded.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  No specific restrictions for most projects, however, most projects are awarded
  for a one to five year period and funded on a year-by-year basis and funds are
  expended during a particular fiscal year. No commitment will be made to fund
  projects beyond one year. New and continuing projects will be re-evaluated
  each year based on performance, merit, and funding availability.
Reports:
  Recipients of funding are required to submit quarterly financial status reports
  using form Standard Form 269, Financial Status Report, and quarterly, semi-
  annual, or annual performance reports 30 days following the end of the reporting
  period. Final performance and financial status reports are due 120 days after the
  end date of grant performance.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance ($500,000 for fiscal years
  ending December 1, 2003) or more a year in Federal awards will have a single or
  a program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that
  expend less than ($500,000 for fiscal years ending after December 1, 2003) a
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  State, local and Indian Tribal governments shall maintain project records in
  accordance with 43 CFR 12.82. All other recipients shall maintain project
  records in accordance with 43 CFR 12.953.
Account Identification:
  14-1109-0-1-302.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $7,221,600; FY 08 est $7,500,000; and FY 09 est $8,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Past partnership projects have run between $5,000 to $1,000,000. Average
  amounts run about $45,000 or less.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  States, other partners, and the Bureau of Land Management have worked
  together with private and non-federal landowners to enhance public health and
  safety and eliminate environmental degradation due to impacts from past
  hardrock mining activities, illegal dumping of solid and hazardous wastes, and
  unexploded ordnance. Natural resources adversely impacted by oil spills and
  releases of hazardous substances have been restored. Soil, water and air
                                                                                  425
