  resources have been sampled and monitored; impacts have been controlled.          
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  Information about the Bureau of Land Management environmental quality and         
  protection programs can be found at www.blm.gov, including: the Cooperative       
  Conservation Based Strategic Plan for the Abandoned Mine Lands Programs,          
  Abandoned Mine Land Program Policy Bureau of Land Manual 3720 and                 
  Handbook H-3720-1, Hazard Management and Resource Restoration Manual              
  1703, and CERCLA Response Actions Handbook H-1703-1. Manuals                      
  providing basic program policy guidance for the Soil, Water and Air Program       
  are found in Bureau of Land Management Manual 7000 series and may be              
  obtained at www.blm.gov.                                                          
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  See Catalog Appendix IV for addresses of Bureau of Land Management State          
  Offices.                                                                          
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Nancy E. Dean, Division Chief, Environmental Quality and Protection, Bureau       
  of Land Management (WO 280), 1849 C St., N.W., 204 LS, Washington, DC             
  20240. Telephone: (202) 452-5060.                                                 
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  http://www.blm.gov/ .                                                             
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  None.                                                                             
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  Past projects funded encouraged the State and the Bureau of Land Management       
  to work together within close proximity of public lands. Examples of              
  Abandoned Mine Land projects can be found in the Bureau of Land                   
  Management - Forest Service joint report entitled "Abandoned Mine Lands: A        
  Decade of Progress Reclaiming Hardrock Mines," BLM publication BLM-WO-            
  GI-07-013-3720. This report is available at www.blm.gov. Projects designed to     
  reduce salt loading in the Colorado River, which include plugging saline wells,   
  reducing saline runoff form areas of saline soils through improved vegetation     
  management and restoration of OHV trails and other surface disturbance,           
  organization and presentation of a road maintenance workshop to teach erosion     
  control methods, and a study on relationship between grazing and vegetation       
  green-up to maintain vegetation cover in areas of saline geology and soils. Past  
  completed projects were completed to improve stream bank and channel              
  conditions and projects to analyze movement and management of groundwater         
  in areas threatened by groundwater over-draught and ground water                  
  contamination.                                                                    
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                   
  General criteria used to select assistance proposals are based on their direct    
  relationship to federal lands and a balanced review including relevance to        
  program objectives, merit and cost effectiveness.                                 
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
15.237 RANGELAND RESOURCE MANAGEMENT                                                
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     
  BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                      
  Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976, 43 U.S.C. 1737(b), Public         
  Law 94-579, as amended; Public Rangelands Improvement Act of 1978, 43             
  U.S.C. 1906, Public Law 95-514 and the Taylor Grazing Act of 1934, 43 U.S.C.      
  315a, as amended.                                                                 
OBJECTIVES:                                                                         
  To provide financial assistance, through grants or cooperative agreements to      
  manage, develop and protect public lands and ehnance the understanding of         
  rangeland and watershed resources, their ecological processes, and capabilities   
  in order to meet rangeland and water quality standards for the improvement of     
  rangelands on public lands. Projects and livestock administration for the         
  management of rangeland on public lands. Projects and livestock administration    
  for the management of rangeland ecosystems are conducted in a coordinated         
  manner and consider the interrelationships of living organisms of plants and      
  animals, the physical environment of soil, water, air, and landscape              
  characteristics when developing and implementing resource objectives and          
  management actions. Systematic assessments and evaluations are conducted at       
  the watershed, allotment, and in some instances, the landscape scale to           
  determine in the standards and fundamentals for rangeland ecosystem health are    
  being achieved.                                                                   
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements); Advisory Services and Counseling;        
  Training.                                                                         
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                          
  Projects are limited to rangeland projects on public lands administered by the    
  Bureau of Land Management located mostly in the Western United States and         
  Alaska.                                                                           
Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  Anyone/General public.                                                            
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                            
  Anyone/General public.                                                            
Credentials/Documentation:                                                          


426                                                                           11-08

  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Coordinate cooperative rangeland project proposals with Bureau of Land
  Management local State or District office for more information and local
  requirements. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  A Standard Form 424, Application for Federal Assistance, Standard Form 424A,
  Budget Information for Non-Construction Programs, Standard Form 424B,
  Assurances for Non-Construction Programs, and a written proposal should be
  submitted through Grants.gov or via a hardcopy to the project office and
  include: a title, objectives, timeframe, and a budget breakdown as specified in
  the funding opportunity announcement. No State plan is required with this
  application.
Award Procedure:
  Projects are reviewed at the Bureau of Land Management State and District
  Office level and funding recommendations are made through the State's annual
  work plan. Final budget approvals rest with the State Director.
Deadlines:
  The deadline will be published in the Grants.gov announcement for each project.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Award time varies depending on the type and complexity of the project. Most
  awards are anticipated within 90 days or less after the announcement closes.
  Further information will be available for each project at the time the funding
  opportunity announcement is posted on www.grants.gov and may be obtained by
  contacting the point of contact listed in the funding opportunity announcement.
Appeals:
  None. Final award decisions are not subject to appeal; however, the Bureau of
  Land Management will provide all applicants with information on why their
  proposal was not selected for award.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statuatory formula matching requirements. However,
  applicant's matching funds or in-kind services are encouraged and those projects
  are more likely to be funded.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  No specific restrictions for most projects, however, most projects are awarded
  for a one to five year period and funded on a year-by-year basis and funds are
  expended during a particular fiscal year. No commitment will be made to fund
  projects beyond one year. New and continuing projects will be re-evaluated
  each year based on performance, merit, and fund availability.
Reports:
  Recipients of funding are required to submit quarterly financial status reports
  using form Standard Form 269, Financial Status Report, and quarterly, semi-
  annual, or annual peformance reports 30 days following the end of the reporting
  period. Final performance and financial status reports are due 120 days after the
  end date of grant peformance.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance $500,000 (for fiscal years
  ending December 1, 2003) or more a year in Federal awards will have a single or
  a program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that
  expend less than $500,000 (for fiscal years ending after December 1, 2003) a
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  State, local and Indian Tribal governments shall maintain project records in
  accordance with 43 CFR 12.82. All other recipients shall maintain project
  records in accordance with 43 CFR 12.953.
Account Identification:
  14-1109-0-1-302.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $322,369; FY 08 est $325,000; and FY 09 est $325,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Past partnership projects have run between $3,000 to $75,000. Average
  amounts run about $13,000 or less.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  The Bureau of Land Management continues to maintain and expand
  partnerships to include funding for activities within this program to include
  resource monitoring, conducting upland health assessments and evaluations, use
  authorizations, allotment planning and administration, development of
  vegetation objectives, integrated weed management, and activity plan
  development in connection with land use planning.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Bureau of Land Management's Rangeland and Management program is
  generally guided by the provisions in 43 CFR Part 4000. A variety of public
  interest publications on these programs are available free of charge by contacting
  the appropriate State Office. Manuals and handbooks providing basic program
  operational guidance for Rangeland Management are found in BLM Manuals
