  4000 series and may be obtained by contacting the Washington Office.              
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  See Catalog Appendix IV for addresses of Bureau of Land Management State          
  Offices.                                                                          
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Division of Chief, Rangeland Resources, Bureau of Land Management (WO             
  220), 1849 C St., N.W., 201 LS, Washington, DC 20240. Telephone: (202)785-        
  6569.                                                                             
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  http://www.blm.gov/wo/st/en/pro/grazing.l.html.                                   
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  None.                                                                             
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  Cooperative rangeland management projects that developed criteria and             
  indicators for measuring sustainability of rangelands. Projects that provided     
  range management education and training for grazing permittees and agency         
  staff. Projects that supported technical and applied rangeland and grazing        
  management information for dissemination, such as support for Grazinglands        
  Conservation Initiative Convention and the International Rangelands Congress.     
  Projects that promoted general public education and information on values of      
  proper livestock grazing management.                                              
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                   
  General criteria used to select assistance proposals are based on their direct    
  relationship to federal lands and a balanced review including relevance to        
  program objectives, merit and cost effectiveness.                                 
                                                                                    
15.238 CHALLENGE COST SHARE                                                         
                                                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     
  BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT, DEPARTMENT OF INTERIOR                                 
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                      
  Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriation Act for Fiscal      
  Year 1991, Public Law 101-512, Title I.                                           
OBJECTIVES:                                                                         
  The Challenge Cost Share Program works through cooperative partners to help       
  accomplish high priority work to support habitat improvement, comprehensive       
  travel management, recreation and cultural projects. The types of projects that   
  can be funded include monitoring and inventoring of resources; implementing       
  habitat improvement or projection projects; developing threatened and             
  endangered species recovery plans; protecting, stabilizing or documenting         
  cultural resources; travel management, including managing off-highway vehicle     
  use; and providing enhanced recreational experiences, including visitor services, 
  information, and facilities for public health and safety.                         
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements); Use of Property, Facilities, and         
  Equipment; Advisory Services and Counseling; Training.                            
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                          
  All projects are restricted to public lands administered by the Bureau of Land    
  Management or that directly benefit public lands. Most of these lands are         
  located in the Western United States and Alaska. Assistance can be used to        
  leverage funds with partners and other external funding sources to enhance the    
  Bureau of Land Management's ability/capacity to survey, monitor and inventory     
  resources; to restore and maintain land in a healthy condition; to support        
  threatened and endangered species management; to manage heritage resources;       
  to enhance recreational experiences; provide visitor services or facilities; to   
  conduct public outreach and education projects; and to support emerging           
  partnership opportunities.                                                        
Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  Anyone/General public.                                                            
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                            
  Anyone/General public.                                                            
Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  None.                                                                             
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  Coordinate cooperative project proposals with Bureau of Land Management           
  local State or District Office for more information and local requirements. This  
  program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                               
Application Procedure:                                                              
  A Standard Form 424, Application for Federal Assistance, Standard Form 424A,      
  Budget Information for Non-Construction Programs, Standard Form 424B,             
  Assurances for Non-Construction Programs, and a written proposal should be        
  submitted through Grants.gov or via hardcopy to the project office and include:   
  a title, objectives, timeframe, and a budget breakdown as specified in the        
  funding opportunity announcement. No State plan is required with this             
  application.                                                                      
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  Projects are reviewed at the Bureau of Land Management State and District         
  Office level and funding recommendations are made through the State's annual      
  work plan. Final budget approvals rest with the State Director.                   
Deadlines:                                                                          


                                                                               11-08
  The deadline will be published in Grants.gov announcements each year.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Most awards are anticipated within 90 days or less after the announcement
  closes.
Appeals:
  None. Final award decisions are not subject to appeal; however, the Bureau of
  Land Management will provide all applicants with information on why their
  proposal was not selected for award.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has statuatory non-federal maching funds or in-kind service
  requirements. Funds are required to be matched one nonfederal dollar for each
  federal dollar. The matching funds must be nonfederal in origin.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  No specific retrictions for more projects, however, most projects are awarded for
  one to five year period and funded on a year-by-year basis and funds are
  expended during a particular year. No commitment will be made to fund
  projects beyond one year. New and continuing projects will be re-evaluated
  each year based on performance, merit, and funding availability.
Reports:
  Recipients of funding are required to submit quarterly financial status reports
  using Standard Form 269, Financial Status Report, and quarterly, semi-annual,
  or annual performance reports 30 days following the end of the reporting period.
  Final performance and financial status reports are due 120 days after the end
  date of grant performance.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonproft Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance $500,000 (for fiscal years
  ending December 1, 2003) or more a year in Federal awards will have a single or
  a program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that
  expend less than $500,000 (for fiscal years ending after December 1, 2003) a
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  State, local and Indian Tribal governments shall maintain projet records in
  accordance with 43 CFR 12.82. All other recipients shall maintain project
  records in accordance with 43 CFR 12.953.
Account Identification:
  14-1109-0-1-302.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $3,789,000; FY 08 est $3,800,000; and FY 09 est $3,900,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Past partnership projects have run between $10,000 to $100,000. Average
  amounts run about $20,000 or less.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Past partnership projects have completed wildlife habitat improvement,
  protection, and restoration projects with durable lasting results, conducted
  wildlife studies, and developed threatened and endangered species recovery
  plans. Cultural resource projects have been conducted to protect and stabilize
  cultural sites and conduct surveys to find artifacts. Recreation projects have
  been conducted to build trials, obliterate roads and trials, and enhance visitor
  recreation experiences on public lands.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Regulations, manuals and information about the Bureau of Land Management
  fish, wildlife, botany, recreation and cultural programs can be found at website
  http://www.blm.gov/.
Regional or Local Office:
  See Catalog Appendix IV for addresses of Bureau of Land Management State
  Offices.
Headquarters Office:
  Management Program Analyst, Assistant Director for Renewable Resources and
  Planning, Bureau of Land Management (WO 200), 1849 C St., N.W., 201 LS,
  Washington, DC 20240. Telephone: (202) 785-6594.
Web Site Address:
  For general information see website http://www.blm.gov/.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Past projects funded include monitoring and inventorying of resources;
  implementing habitat improvement or protection projects; developing threatened
  and endangered species recovery plans; protecting, stabilizing, or documenting
  cultural resources; travel management, including managing off-highway vehicle
  use; and providing enhanced recreational experiences including visitor services,
  information, and facilities for public health and safety.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  General criteria used to select assistance proposals are based on their direct
  relationship to federal lands and a balanced view including relevance to program
  objectives, merit and cost effectiveness.
                                                                                  427
