15.239 MANAGEMENT INITIATIVES                                                       
                                                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     
  BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR.                            
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                      
  Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976, 43 U.S.C. 1737(b), Public

                                                                                    
  Law 94-579, as amended.                                                           
OBJECTIVES:                                                                         
  To provide a variety of Bureau of Land Management financial assistance awards

                                                                                    
  not covered by any other program entry. This program will support mission         
  program efforts for the management, protection, and development of public         
  lands managed by the Bureau of Land Management. Awards are typically              
  supported by funding one-time specific legislation and internal projects and      
  programs.                                                                         
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements); Training; Use of Property, Facilities,   
  and Equipment; Advisory Services and Counseling.                                  
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                          
  Assistance support for the management, protection, and development of public      
  lands within the Bureau's area of responsibility and supported by specific        
  authorities. Awards are restricted to activities on Federal public lands for      
  activities that benefit resources on Federal land. Most of these public lands are 
  located in the Western United States and Alaska. The assistance may support       
  outreach and education efforts associated with partnership programs.              
Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  Anyone/General public.                                                            
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                            
  Anyone/General public.                                                            
Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  None.                                                                             
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  Coordinate cooperative project proposals with Bureau of Land Management

                                                                                    
  local State or District Office for more information and local requirements. This

                                                                                    
  program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                               
Application Procedure:                                                              
  A Standard Form 424, Application for Federal Assistance, Standard 424A,           
  Budget Information for Non-Construction Programs, and a written proposal          
  should be submitted through Grants.gov or via hardcopy to the project office and  
  include: a title, objectives, timeframe, and a budget breakdown as specified in   
  the funding opportunity announcement. No State plan is required with this         
  application.                                                                      
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  Projects are reviewed at the Bureau of Land Management State and District         
  Office level and funding recommendations are made through the State's annual      
  work plan. Final budget approvals rest with the State Director.                   
Deadlines:                                                                          
  The deadline will be published in the Grants.gov announcement for each project.   
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  Projects are approved through the Bureau budget cycle that normally requires at

  least one year to receive funding. Award time varies depending on the type and

  complexity of the project. Most awards are anticipated within 90 days or less     
  after the announcement closes. Further information will be able for each project  
  at the time of funding opportunity announcement is posted on www.grant.gov        
  and may be obtained by contacting the point of contact listed in the funding      
  opportunity announcement.                                                         
Appeals:                                                                            
  None. Final award decisions are not subject to appeal. The Bureau of Land         
  Management will provide all applicants with information on why their proposals    
  was not selected for award.                                                       
Renewals:                                                                           
  None.                                                                             
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  This program has no statuatory formula requirements unless specifically           
  required. However, applicant's matching funds are encouraged and those            
  projects are more likely to be funded.                                            
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  No specific retrictions for most projects, however, some projects are awarded for 
  one to five year period and funded on a year basis. Funds are normally            
  expended during a particular fiscal year.                                         
Reports:                                                                            
  Recipients of funding are required to submit quarterly financial status reports   
  using Standard Form 269, Financial Status Report, and quarterly, semi-annual,     
  or annual performance reports 30 days following the end of the reporting period.  
  Final performance and financial status reports are due 120 days after the end     
  date of grant performance.                                                        
Audits:                                                                             
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June        
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit                   
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance $500,000     
  (for fiscal years ending Dec. 1, 2003) or more a year in Federal awards will have 
  a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities 
428                                                                           11-08

  that expend less than $500,000 (for fiscal years ending after Dec. 1, 2003) a year
  in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  State, local and Indian Tribal governments shall maintain project records in
  accordance with 43 CFR 12.82. All other recipients shall maintain project
  records in accordance with 43 CFR 12.953.
Account Identification:
  14-1109-0-1-302.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $3,045,000; FY 08 est $2,000,000; and FY 09 est $1,600,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Past partnerships have run between $4,000 to $250,000. Average amounts run
  about $4,000 or less.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Developing partnerships to include the funding for continued support of
  collaborative efforts to build community capacity and support for the
  management, protection and development of public lands. The public and BLM
  benefit from its support with partners in heightening public understanding of the
  social and economic, as well as environmental, aspects of ecosystem restoration
  and maintenance.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Program information is included in the Bureau of Land Management Manuals,
  available at http://www.blm.gov. These documents may also be obtained by
  contacting the Bureau of Land Management Office listed below.
Regional or Local Office:
  See Catalog Appendix IV for addresses of Bureau of Land Management State
  Offices.
Headquarters Office:
  Procurement Analyst, Property, Acquisition, and Headquarters Services Group,
  Bureau of Land Management (WO 850), 1849 C St., NW, LS-1075,
  Washington, DC 20240. Telephone: (202) 452-5186.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.blm.gov/.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Assistance for State and local governments, Indian Tribal governments, public
  and private colleges and universities, conservation corps, and nonprofit
  organizations, as directed in the annual appropriations. Support of Historical
  Black Colleges and Universities and Hispanic Association of Colleges and
  Universities in support of students interested in pursuing careers in the natural
  resource area.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  General criteria used to select assistance proposals are based on the applicant's
  direct relationship to the management, protection and development of federal
  lands and a balanced review including relevance to program objectives, merit
  and cost effectiveness.
15.240 HELIUM RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Helium Privatization Act of 1996, 50 U.S.C 167, Public Law 104-273.
OBJECTIVES:
  To meet the requirements of the Helium Privatization Act of 1996, Section 8, a
  crude helium enrichment unit was designed, constructed, and is now operated to
  ensure that the U.S. Government can upgrade and deliver crude helium from an
  underground storage field, by upgrading the gas to pipeline quality, compressing
  the gas and transmitting via the governments conservation pipeline which
  supplies helium to Private Helium plants located along the governments
  pipeline. Private plants refine the helium, supply private industry, government
  agencies and research projects. To pay back the helium debt, the cost that was
  incurred by purchasing the helium, and to ensure that the U.S. Government can
  redeliver crude helium into the conservation pipeline system in order to meet
  private and Government customer needs, as defined in the Helium Privatization
  Act.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Projects are limited to entities that have a direct involvement with the
  implementation of the Helium Privatization Act and projects related to the
  elimination of the Helium Debt.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Public nonprofit institution/organization, Other public institution/organization,
  and Profit organization.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Anyone/general public.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
