Preapplication Coordination:                                                       
  Coordinate cooperative project proposals with the Bureau of Land Management,     
  New Mexico State Office for more information and requirements. This program      
  is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                                      
Application Procedure:                                                             
  A Standard Form 424, Application for Federal Assistance, Standard Form 424A,     
  Budget Information for Non-Construction Programs, Standard Form 424B,            
  Assurances for Non-Construction Programs, and a written proposal should be       
  submitted through Grants.gov or via hardcopy to the project office and include:  
  a title, objectives, timeframe, and a budget breakdown as specified in the       
  funding opportunity announcement. No State plan is required with this            
  application.

Award Procedure:

  Projects are reviewed at the Bureau of Land Management, New Mexico State

                                                                                   
  Office. Final approvals rest with the State Director.                            
Deadlines:                                                                         
  The deadline will be published in the Grants.gov announcement for each project.

Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                
  Awards are anticipated within 90 days or less after the announcement closes.     
  Further information will be available for the project at the time the funding    
  opportunity announcement is posted on www.grants.gov and may be obtained by      
  contacting the point of contact listed in the funding opportunity announcement.  
Appeals:                                                                           
  None. Final award decisions are not subject to appeal. The Bureau of Land        
  Management will provide all unsuccessful applicants with information on why      
  their proposal was not selected for award.                                       
Renewals:                                                                          
  Not applicable.                                                                  
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                 
  This program has no statutory formula matching requirements.                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                             
  Projects are awarded for a one to five year period and funded on a year-by-year

                                                                                   
  basis. Continuing funding will be re-evaluated each year based on performance,

                                                                                   
  merit, and funding availability.                                                 
Reports:                                                                           
  Recipients of funding are required to submit quarterly financial status reports

                                                                                   
  using Standard Form 269, Financial Status Report, and quarterly, semi-annual,

                                                                                   
  or annual performance reports 30 days following the end of the reporting period. 
  Final performance and financial status reports are due 120 days after the end    
  date of grant performance.                                                       
Audits:                                                                            
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June       
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"   
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance $500,000 (for fiscal years  
  ending December 1, 2003) or more a year in Federal awards will have a single or  
  a program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that       
  expend less than $500,000 (for fiscal years ending after December 1, 2003) a     
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, 
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.                                           
Records:                                                                           
  Recipients shall maintain project records in accordance with 43 CFR 12.953.      
Account Identification:                                                            
  14-1108-0-1-302.

                                                                                   
Obligations:

                                                                                   
  FY 07 $6,900,000; FY 08 est $6,900,000; and FY 09 est $6,900,000.

Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                         
  Past partnership projects range between $714,600 and $6,129,800. Average         
  amount is $3,400,000 or less.                                                    
                                                                                   
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

  Through a partnership the Bureau of Land Management, Helium Operation, now       
  delivers crude helium from an underground storage field, by upgrading the gas    
  to pipeline quality, compressing the gas and transmitting through the            
  governments conservation pipeline which supplies helium to private helium        
  plants located along the government's pipeline. Private plants refine the helium,
  and supply private industry, government agencies and research projects. The      
  helium sold is used to pay back the helium debt to ensure that the U.S.          
  Government can redeliver crude helium into the conservation pipeline.            
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                           
  Information can be found at the website listed below.                            
Regional or Local Office:                                                          
  Bureau of Land Management, New Mexico State Office, Division of Minerals,        
  1474 Rodeo Road, Santa Fe, NM 87505.                                             
Headquarters Office:                                                               
  Tim Spisak, Group Manager, Fluid Minerals, Bureau of Land Management,            
  (WO-300), 1849 C St. N.W., 501-LS, Washington, DC 20240, Telephone:              
  (202) 452-5061.                                                                  
Web Site Address:                                                                  
  http://www.blm.gov/nm/st/en/fo/Amarillo_Field_Office.html .                      
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                  
  None.                                                                            
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                       


                                                                              11-08
  Construction of a compressor station and the Crude Helium Enrichment Unit
  with Partners that upgrades and delivers crude helium from an underground
  storage field, by upgrading the gas to pipeline quality, compressing the gas and
  transmitting via the governments conservation pipeline which supplies helium to
  private helium plants located along the governments pipeline. Private plants
  refine the helium and supply private industry, government agencies and research
  projects.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  General criteria used to select assistance proposals are based on their direct
  relationship to helium projects and a balanced review including relevance to
  program objectives, merit and cost effectiveness.
15.242 NATIONAL FIRE PLAN - RURAL FIRE
ASSISTANCE
   (National Fire Plan - Rural Fire Assistance)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT, BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS,
  FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE, NATIONAL PARK SERVICE,
  DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2005,
  Title I, Public Law 108-447. This program was first implemented in the
  Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2001,
  Title IV, Public Law 106-291.
OBJECTIVES:
  To implement the National Fire Plan by increasing firefighter safety and
  enhancing the knowledge and fire protection capability of rural fire departments
  by providing assistance in education and training, protective clothing and
  equipment purchase, and support to public education efforts on a cost share
  basis.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants; Use of Property, Facilities, and Equipment; Provision of
  Specialized Services; Advisory Services and Counseling; Dissemination of
  Technical Information; Training.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Emphasis is placed on fire departments that protect rural communities and play
  a substantial cooperative role in the protection of the Department of the Interior
  managed public lands.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State and local government, Public nonprofit institution/organizations, Other
  public institution/organization, Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Government,
  Private nonprofit institution/organization, Native American Organization, and
  rural fire departments serving a community with a population of 10,000 or less
  in the wildland/urban interface. All applicants must be rural fire departments
  serving a community with a population of 10,000 or less in the wildland/urban
  interface.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  State, Local, Public Nonprofit Institution/Organization, Other Public
  Institution/Organization, Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Government, Small
  Business, Profit Organization, Private Organization, Anyone/General Public,
  Native American Organization, Farmer/Rancher/Agriculture Producer,
  Homeowner, Land/Property Owner, Suburban, and Rural.
Credentials/Documentation:
  For grants awarded, cost will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular
  No. A-87 for State and Local Governments; OMB Circular No. A-21 for
  educational institutions; OMB Circular No. A-122 for nonprofit organizations;
  and Federal Acquisition Regulation Subpart 31.2 for private foundations, firms,
  individuals, and other nonprofits excluded from coverage under OMB Circular
  No. A-122.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Coordinate applications with the local BLM State or District Office, Bureau of
  Indian Affairs Regional Office, Fish and Wildlife Service Regional Office, or a
  National Park Service Regional Office or National Park unit. This program is
  excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Rural Fire Assistance is coordinated through each State Forester and the
  Bureau/Service State or Regional Office, or National Park unit. Procedures may
  be found on the National Fire Plan website at: http://www.fireplan.gov. No
  specific application forms apply, except for grants awarded, the standard
  application forms furnished by the Federal agency and required by 43 CFR Part
  12, Subpart C, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and
  Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments," and 43 CFR Part 12,
  Subpart F, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Agreements
  With Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other Nonprofit
  Organizations", must be used by this program.
Award Procedure:
  To ensure consistency within existing rural fire assistance programs, the
  Department of the Interior bureaus work with the State Foresters and other
                                                                                  429
