  Federal partners to ensure that funding is allocated in the amount of the award to     
  qualified and suitable rural fire districts. The following criteria applies for a fire 
  department to participate in the program: Statewide agreement with the State           
  Forester, who maintains cooperative fire agreements with the rural fire                
  department/volunteer fire department, or a cooperative fire agreement with an          
  Interior Bureau; rural fire department serving a community with a population of        
  10,000 or less in the wildland/urban interface; and the funding request is limited     
  to training, equipment, and prevention activities. The rural fire department must      
  have the capability to meet cost share at a minimum of 10% which may include           
  in-kind services.                                                                      
Deadlines:                                                                               
  Contact the State or regional office, as appropriate for application deadlines.        
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                      
  Rural fire assistance projects are approved by the Bureau/Service/Park Unit in         
  coordination with the State Forester and other Federal partners. Normally all          
  grant requests are received and awards made during the same fiscal year.               
Appeals:

  None.                                                                                  
Renewals:

  None.                                                                                  
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                       
  This program includes matching requirements. For example, rural fire                   
  departments must have the capability to meet cost share at a minimum of 10             
  percent, which may include in kind services.                                           
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                   
  Most projects are funded on a single year basis and funds are expended during          
  the fiscal year of the award.                                                          
Reports:                                                                                 
  Performance monitoring schedules and/or progress reports will be developed in          
  consultation with the applicant, but at a minimum will take place at least once        
  during the life of a project.                                                          
Audits:                                                                                  
  Projects will be audited at least once during life cycle. In accordance with the       
  provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June 27, 2003), "Audits of              
  States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations," nonfederal entities           
  that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have       
  a single or a program specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities      
  that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal        
  audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.               
Records:                                                                                 
  Records relating to work performed and costs are kept by the recipient. There is       
  no fixed records schedule. Records for grants awarded to State, Local and Indian       
  Tribal Governments will be maintained in accordance with the provisions of 43          
  CFR Part 12, Subpart C, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and            
  Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments." Records for grants             
  awarded to nonprofit organizations will be maintained in accordance with the           
  provisions of 43 CFR Part 12, Subpart F, "Uniform Administrative                       
  Requirements for Grants and Agreements With Institutions of Higher Education,          
  Hospitals, and Other Nonprofit Organizations".                                         
Account Identification:                                                                  
  Bureau of Land Management - 14-1125-0-1-302; Bureau of Indian Affairs - 14-            
  1125-0-1-302; Fish and Wildlife Service - 14-1125-0-1-302; National Park               
  Service - 14-1125-0-1-302.                                                             
Obligations:                                                                             
  FY 07 $0; FY 08 est $6,032,000; and FY 09 est $0.                                      
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                               
  $1000 to $20,000; $6000.                                                               
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                 
  An average of 1,200 Rural Fire Departments are provided assistance each year           
  for technical assistance, training, supplies, equipment and public education           
  support.                                                                               
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                 
  The Department of the Interior's rural fire assistance program is guided by the        
  provisions of the National Fire Plan. A variety of public information on this plan     
  is available by contacting the appropriate Bureau/Service Office or the National       
  Fire Plan's web site at: http://www.fireplan.gov.                                      
Regional or Local Office:                                                                
  Contact Regional/State/Local Office: See Catalog Appendix IV for addresses.            
Headquarters Office:                                                                     
  BLM: Chief, Community Protection and Assistance, Planning Resources Group,             
  Bureau of Land Management (FA 130), National Interagency Fire Center, 3833             
  S. Development Ave, Boise, ID 83705. Telephone: (208) 387-5169. BIA:                   
  Assistant Director, Fire Operations, Bureau of Indian Affairs, National                
  Interagency Fire Center, 3833 S. Development Ave, Boise, ID 83705.                     
  Telephone: (208) 387-5372. FWS: Fire Management Specialist, Fish and                   
  Wildlife Service, National Interagency Fire Center, 3833 S. Development Ave,           
  Boise, ID 83705. Telephone: (208) 387-5976. NPS: National Fire Operations              
  Program Leader, National Park Service, National Interagency Fire Center, 3833          
  S. Development Ave, Boise, ID 83705. Telephone: (208) 387-5226.                        
Web Site Address:                                                                        


430                                                                                11-08

  http://www.nifc.gov/rfa/index.html
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  15.228, National Fire Plan - Wildland Urban Interface Community Fire
  Assistance.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Wildland fire assistance to rural fire departments through technical assistance,
  training, supplies, equipment and public education support.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Criteria for ranking eligible Rural Fire Departments, relative to other applicants,
  for funding allocation are: The fire department's frequency of responses to
  wildland/urban fire incidents in the local area; the fire department's wildland
  prevention and education program needs; the fire department's training program
  needs; the communities and Department of the Interior's values to be protected;
  the percentage of wildland/urban lands; and the number of wildland fire engines
  in the department relative to the percentage of wildland/urban interface acres
  protected.
15.250 REGULATION OF SURFACE COAL MINING AND
SURFACE EFFECTS OF UNDERGROUND COAL MINING
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF SURFACE MINING RECLAMATION AND ENFORCEMENT,
  DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977, Public Law 95-87, 91
  Stat. 445-532.
OBJECTIVES:
  To assist the States in administering approved regulatory programs.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants; Direct Payments for Specified Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grants for permanent program development are available to fund staff and
  related costs in connection with preparing State legislative proposals; preparing
  State regulations; preparing permanent program applications to the Office of
  Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement (OSM); and for other related
  purposes. Administration and enforcement grants are awarded to assist States
  that have received approval of permanent regulatory programs. Funded
  cooperative agreements provide for State regulation of coal mining activities on
  Federal lands. Technical assistance is available on any aspect of regulating
  surface impacts of coal mining.
Applicant Eligibility:
  The State must have an approved program and a designated State agency to
  receive and administer grants.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  State agencies responsible for regulation, reclamation and enforcement of
  provisions protecting the environment from negative effects of coal mining
  operations. Coal mining operators with annual production of less than 300,000
  tons total at all mining locations may apply to State or Federal regulatory
  authorities for assistance in meeting certain technical permit application
  requirements.
Credentials/Documentation:
  The Governor of a State designates an agency to act as recipient of the grant or
  funded cooperative agreement.
Preapplication Coordination:
  No preapplication is required. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O.
  12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should
  consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or
  her State for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in
  applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  The standard application SF 424 and other forms furnished by the Federal
  agency and required by 43 CFR Part 12, Subpart C, "Uniform Administrative
  Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local
  Governments," must be used for this program. State Regulatory grant applicants
  are required to submit applications to their appropriate Regional/OSM Field
  Office. State applications must meet specific criteria described in the Federal
  Register, 30 CFR Part 725, 735 and 795. Copies of the regulations and
  application forms are available from the appropriate OSM Regional/Field Office.
Award Procedure:
  Review by appropriate regional/field staff and approval by the OSM
  Regional/Field Office is required.
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  60 days.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Annual applications required for grants.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
