  secured. The project should propose to use proven or innovative technology that   
  has a high probability of success and produce tangible results, e.g., fishery     
  restored, stream miles improved, educational and community benefits, pollutants   
  removed from the streams. Funds must be used for the construction phase of a      
  project and there must be demonstrated public support for the project. Also,      
  there must be a plan to address any ongoing operation/maintenance                 
  considerations.                                                                   
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
15.254 SUMMER WATERSHED INTERN                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     
  OFFICE OF SURFACE MINING RECLAMATION AND ENFORCEMENT,                             
  DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR                                                        
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                      
  Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977; Public Law 95-87; 91          
  Stat. 445-532.                                                                    
OBJECTIVES:                                                                         
  The Office of Surface Mining (OSM) Watershed Intern Program provides funds        
  to assist watershed groups by providing funds for the watershed organizations to  
  hire interns to work on specific watershed projects. The project must clearly     
  enhance the sustainability of the watershed organizations and must contribute     
  directly to the remediation of acid mine drainage. The AmeriCorps*VISTA           
  generally concentrates on fighting poverty and building capacity. OSM's           
  primary goal is to fight acid mine drainage (AMD) in the watersheds of the        
  Appalachia. The combined efforts of OSM and AmeriCorps*VISTA is to bring          
  environmental and economic improvement in the Appalachia region by targeting      
  problems associated with pre-regulatory coal mining in the Appalachia             
  watersheds affected by AMD.                                                       
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.                                                
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                          
  The OSM Watershed Intern Program is to assist watershed groups by providing       
  funds for the watershed organizations to hire interns to work on specific         
  watershed projects. The OSM/Americorp*VISTA provides a one time payment           
  for support for the watershed organizations to obtain OSM/Americorp*VISTA         
  volunteers to work on specific projects. Projects for both programs must clearly  
  enhance the sustainability of the watershed organization, and must contribute     
  directly to the remediation of acid mine drainage.                                
Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  The OSM Watershed Intern Program recipients are required to be public or          
  private non-profit institutions/organizations, established watershed organizations
  in the following States to be eligible to participate: Alabama, Illinois, Indiana,
  Iowa, Kentucky, Maryland, Missouri, Ohio, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania,                 
  Tennessee, Virginia, and West Virginia. Undergraduate and Graduate Students,      
  throughout the United States, interested in helping to clean up the environment   
  are also eligible. OSM/AmeriCorps VISTA requires qualified watershed groups       
  to be non-profit organizations or be sponsored by a local non-profit group such   
  as a Resource Conservation and Development District, a local historical society,  
  or a Soil and Water Conservation Service. The program currently serves the        
  following Appalachia States: Alabama, Kentucky, Maryland, Ohio,                   
  Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Virginia and West Virginia.                              
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                            
  Watershed organizations in communities impacted by streams polluted by acid       
  mine drainage will benefit from this program.                                     
Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  Proof of not-for-profit, IRS 501(c)(3), status is required of nonprofit watershed 
  organizations. Proof of student status is required.                               
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  Preapplication is not required. This program is excluded from coverage under

  E.O. 12372.                                                                       
Application Procedure:                                                              
  The SF-424 application forms required by 2 CFR Part 215.12, and the

  Department of the Interior Code of Federal Regulations at 43 CFR Part 12,         
  Subpart F, or its revisions, must be used. Guidelines and application procedures  
  can be obtained from the OSM Website, www.osmre.gov. Paper copy of                
  guidelines and application procedures can be obtained from the OSM                
  Headquarters.                                                                     
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  Approval by the Director or his designee.                                         
Deadlines:                                                                          
  Sponsorships and internships will be awarded on a rolling basis until all funds   
  are allocated.                                                                    
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  None.                                                                             
Appeals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                             
Renewals:                                                                           
  None.                                                                             
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  This program has no statutory formula. Partners are encouraged to make            


                                                                               11-08
  monetary contributions or provide in-kind services.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Each internship is for 12 weeks of full-time work by an intern. This 12-week
  period can be split with two interns or worked part-time over 24 weeks.
Reports:
  Quarterly reports (financial and programmatic) are required.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Records will be maintained in accordance with the provisions of 43 CFR Part
  12, Subpart F, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and
  Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other
  Nonprofit Organizations."
Account Identification:
  14-5015-0-1-302.
Obligations:
  (Direct payments) FY 07 $65,000; FY 08 est $70,000; and FY 09 est $75,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Each internship includes a $2,000 stipend for 12 weeks of full-time work by an
  intern and $500 for related expenses.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Ten college students working in five States throughout the Appalachian region
  pioneered the Summer Watershed Intern Program during the summer of 1999.
  In 2000 and 2001, 20 college students participated as summer watershed interns.
   During the summer of 2002, together with financial support of the Department
  of Energy's National Energy Technology Laboratory, OSM place 33 interns in
  eight Appalachian States. In FY 03, with additional EPA funding, OSM placed
  30 interns in seven States. In 2004, OSM placed 22 interns in six States. In
  2005, OSM placed 22 interns in eight States. We are currently reviewing
  applications for 2006.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977, Section 404, Public Law
  95-87.
Regional or Local Office:
  See Catalog Appendix IV for addresses.
Headquarters Office:
  Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the
  Interior, 1951 Constitution Ave., NW, Washington, DC 20240. Contact:
  Division of Reclamation Support. Telephone: (202) 208-2585.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.osmre.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  15.253, Not-for-Profit AMD Reclamation.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  In 1999, ten college students pioneered the program, completing projects dealing
  with various aspects of cleaning up acid mine drainage.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Each proposed watershed project must clearly enhance the sustainability of the
  watershed organization and must contribute directly to the remediation of acid
  mine drainage. Candidates must be able to organize their work, work well with
  community groups and on their own, have an understanding of acid mine
  drainage remediation and the national Clean Streams program, and write well.
15.255 APPLIED SCIENCE PROGRAM COOPERATIVE
AGREEMENTS RELATED TO COAL MINING AND
RECLAMATION
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF SURFACE MINING RECLAMATION AND ENFORCEMENT,
  DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 (SMCRA), Public Law
  95-87; Public Law 95-224.
OBJECTIVES:
  To support of two efforts: (1) develop and demonstrate improved technologies to
  address public safety and environmental issues related to the mining of coal and
  reclamation of the lands affected after mining; and (2) encourage efforts to
  collect, preserve and convert into digital format, maps of underground mines
  that provide valuable information regarding protection of public and miner
  safety, mine pool evaluation, and mine subsidence investigation for previously
  mined areas.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
                                                                                 433
