  Projects must focus on issues related to mining in the United States and its        
  territories. Funding will be limited to projects that can be completed without      
  additional funding from the Office of Surface Mining (OSM) beyond those             
  funds awarded in the current fiscal year. Applicants may request funding not to     
  exceed an amount established each year prior to the solicitation for proposals.     
  OSM encourages cost-sharing through an advantaged score in the rating process,      
  but cost-share is not required for the applicant to supply a proposal.              
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Applied Science Projects: Recipients may be any public, private, nonprofit,         
  state, local or Tribal governments, colleges, and universities located in the USA.  
  Mine Mapping: Recipients may be any state or Indian Tribal agency or U.S.           
  Territory.                                                                          
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Communities impacted by coal mining and reclamation of the land after mining.       
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Applied Science Projects: All proposals must either be initiated by or include a    
  letter of endorsement, (on official letterhead) from an appropriately authorized    
  management official representing a State, Indian, or Federal Title IV or V          
  Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act (SMCRA) Mining Regulatory or             
  Abandoned Mine Land Reclamation Authority. Mine Map Projects: Proposals             
  must be from an official State or Tribal agency or U.S. territory within whose      
  borders underground mining has occurred.                                            
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  A preapplication proposal is required to be considered for this program. OSM        
  will announce the opportunity for interested parties to submit preapplication       
  proposals in Grants.gov/, and/or on other Federal government websites generally     
  viewed by the public to access such solicitations, and through direct mailings or   
  email to organizations that have shown a past interest in SMCRA related             
  activities. Specific details of the items to be addressed in the pre-application    
  proposal may also be itemized on an OSM web site. The application process           
  consists of two parts, a preapplication proposal with is used in the project review 
  and selection process, and a formal application that will be submitted only by      
  those organizations whose projects are selected for further consideration. The      
  specifics of the project solicitation, review and selection process are itemized    
  below for Applied Science Projects and for Mine Map Projects. Applied               
  Science Projects: Following is a description and approximate timeline for           
  Applied Science Projects: (1) On an annual basis, OSM announces the                 
  solicitation of preapplication proposals for eligible projects during the first     
  quarter of each fiscal year that funding is available for the Applied Science       
                                                                                      
  Program. (2) OSM allows at least 60 days for interested parties to submit

                                                                                      
  preapplication proposals. (3) Approximately 60 days after the last date to submit

                                                                                      
  proposals, OSM staff and appropriate regional and national technology team

                                                                                      
  members complete initial reviews of preapplication proposals and forward

                                                                                      
  rankings to the National Technology Team Leader (all reviewers are required to

                                                                                      
  sign confidentiality agreements assuring protection of information contained in     
  pre-applications and fairness of the selection process). (4) Approximately 30       
  days later the National Technology Transfer Team reaches consensus on final         
  ranking of preapplication proposals and submits a final recommendation of pre-      
  application proposals for funding to be submitted to the OSM Core Leadership        
  Team. 5) Within 30 days of receipt from the National Technology Team Leader,        
  the OSM Core Leadership Team may make a final decision of which                     
  preapplication proposals to fund (pending receipt by OSM of a complete formal       
  cooperative agreement application within the allowed timeframe). Mine               
  Mapping Projects: (1) On an annual basis, OSM announces the solicitation of         
  preapplication proposals for eligible projects during the first quarter of each     
  fiscal year that funding is available. In addition, OSM notifies the individuals    
  responsible for SMCRA Title IV and Title V programs, and the state geologist        
  for each state where coal mining has occurred. (2) OSM allows approximately         
  60 days for interested parties to submit preapplication proposals. (3)              
  Approximately 60 days after the last date to submit proposals, members of the       
  Underground Mine Map UGMM) Steering Committee excluding OSM                         
  members, plus one representative from each OSM region, one representative           
  from OSM headquarters, and one representative from the Mine Map Repository,         
  will review and rank all of the proposals; (4) Approximately 30 days later, the     
  UGMM Steering Committee Review Team reaches consensus on final ranking              
  of preapplication proposals and submits a recommendation for funding to the         
  OSM Core Leadership Team; (5) Within 30 days of receipt from the Team               
  Leader, the OSM Core Leadership Team may make a final decision of which             
  preapplication proposals to fund (pending receipt by OSM of a complete formal       
  cooperative agreement application within the allowed timeframe). THis program       
  is excluded from coverage under E.O.12372.                                          
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Within 7 days of the decision by the Core Leadership Team of which                  
  preapplications to support, OSM notifies successful preapplicants to submit         
  formal applications. Application materials consist of a cover letter with SF-424    
  Form, OSM-51 Form, and OSM-47 Form. By June 15, each year, OSM begins               
  approving cooperative agreements and awarding funds.                                
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Following the review of the pre-application stage, the formal applications are      
  reviewed by the OSM Core Leadership Team. Approval of cooperative

434                                                                             11-08

  agreements is made by the OSM Director or designee.
Deadlines:
  The deadline for submission of pre-proposals is during the second quarter of
  each fiscal year. Please contact program office for application deadline.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Estimated from 60 to 120 days.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula and no mandatory cost-share or matching
  requirements. However, OSM recommends that applicants participate in the
  support of the Project in the following manner: Applied Science Projects: OSM
  recommends a minimum cost-share of 25 percent with the applicant providing
  some portion of this percentage. The remainder may come from academia,
  industry, or other non-federal sources. Mine Map Projects: OSM encourages
  cost-sharing through an advantaged score in the rating process, but cost-share is
  not required for the applicant to supply a proposal. Cost-share can be comprised
  at any percentage from the following: applicant, academia, industry, or other
  nonfederal sources.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The cooperative agreements have a performance period of 1 year.
Reports:
  Financial and programmatic reports are required no more than quarterly.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance ($500,000 for fiscal years
  ending after December 1, 2003) or more a year in Federal awards will have a
  single or a program specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities
  that expend less than ($500,000 for fiscal years ending after Dec.1, 2003) a year
  in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Records will be maintained in accordance with the provisions of 43 CFR Part
  12, Subparts C and F.
Account Identification:
  14-5015-0-1-302; 14-1801-0-1-302.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $1,200,000; FY 08 $1,400,000; and FY 09 est $1,400,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Applied Science Project Awards will not to exceed $100,000. Mine Map
  Projects have no Limit other than the annual appropriation to this program.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  It is anticipated that Applied Science Projects will result in improved
  technologies to address environmental issues related to the mining of coal and
  reclamation of the land after mining, and for regulatory processes that ensure
  compliance with the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act. It is
  anticipated that Mine Map Projects will result in increased protection of public
  and Miner safety, environmental quality and property from adverse effects of
  underground mines through the cooperative efforts between OSM and various
  state agencies and through increased preservation and public access to mine map
  resources.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977, Public Law 95-87;
  Grants Common Rule at 43 CFR Part 12.
Regional or Local Office:
  See Appendix IV of the Catalog.
Headquarters Office:
  Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the
  Interior, 1951 Constitution Ave., N.W., Washington, DC 20240. Contact: Chief,
  Division of Reclamation Support. Telephone: (202) 208-2788. Use the same
  number for FTS.
Web Site Address:
  See www.grants.gov/. For additional details on specific proposal requirements,
  please see OSM's website at www.mcrcc.osmre.gov/.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  15.250, Regulation of Surface Coal Mining and Surface Effects of Underground
  Coal Mining; 15.252, Abandoned Mine Land Reclamation (AMLR) Program;
  15.253, Not-for-Profit AMD Reclamation.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Applied Science Projects: In order for a preapplication proposal to be
  considered, it must include the following: Electronic submission must be
  received on or before the due date. The proposal must follow the application
  instructions. Instructions for providing the 1st round ranking of projects is as
  follows: (1) Individual reviewers rank the proposals such that the best proposal
  receives the highest rank. When the scores are averaged this will give the best
