  proposals the highest numerical value. (Every reviewer must fill out a non-          
  disclosure agreement in order to access the proposal website.) (2) Regional          
  Team Ranking: Each regional team AR, WR, and MCR will allow each                     
  state/Tribe team member to provide one ranking of proposals. Each state may          
  have more than one person involved in the ranking in order to get the                
  appropriate technical expertise. (3) Each technology transfer member must            
  provide their ranking to the National Technology Team Leader by a specified          
  date each year. (4) National Technology Transfer Team scoring Each National          
  Team member needs to score all projects based upon the following criteria: (a)       
  Does the proposal address a topic of special interest to OSM as identified in the    
  annual solicitation of proposals; (b) What is the level of external financial        
  support; (c) What is the technology transfer potential; (d) What is the technical    
  merit; (e) What is the overall proposal quality, innovation, and viability; Project  
  score spreadsheets should be sent to the National Technology Team Leader by a        
  specified date each year (see Application Process above for 2007 dates). The         
  national technology transfer team is composed of members from OSM and from           
  States that administer coal mining activities. The members from OSM represent        
  Headquarters, the National Technical Training Program (NTTP), Technical              
  Innovation and Professional Services (TIPS) program, and the three OSM               
  Regions (Appalachian, Mid-Continent, and Western). The States are                    
  represented by the Interstate Mining Compact Commission and the Western              
  Interstate Energy Board. Each regional team is composed of one representative        
  from the OSM region and one from each of the State regulatory authorities            
  within that region. Mine Map: After all proposals are received, the first review     
  will be conducted as follows: (1) members of the Underground Mine Map                
  Steering Committee excluding OSM members, one representative from each               
  OSM region, one representative from OSM headquarters, and one representative         
  from the Mine Map Repository, will review and rank all of the proposals. The         
  voting members must rank each proposal in ascending order. The summation of          
  each voting member's score for each proposal will be used to compute the             
  overall ranking. The proposal/severable piece with the lowest score will have the    
  highest priority for funding. Likewise the proposal/severable piece with the         
  highest score will have the least priority for funding. If there is a proposal that a
  member feels should not be considered, the rank should be filled in with a score     
  of 40 rather than the concurrent ascending numerical value. (2) the highest          
  ranked proposals will then be submitted to the OSM Core Leadership Team for          
  decisions concerning final approval of proposed projects.                            
                                                                                       
                                                                                       
15.406 NATIONAL PARK SERVICE CENTENNIAL                                                
CHALLENGE.                                                                             
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  NATIONAL PARK SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                                                                                       
AUTHORIZATION:

                                                                                       
  Challenge Cost Share Provision, Public Law 104-333, 16 U.S.C.; Centennial

                                                                                       
  Challenge Provision (2008), FY 2008 Appropriations Act (December 17,

                                                                                       
  2007)(see H.R. Rep. No. 110-497, Division F, Title I, to accompany H. Res.

                                                                                       
  878, at 266).

                                                                                       
OBJECTIVES:

                                                                                       
  The National Park Centennial Initiative is a ten year effort to prepare national

                                                                                       
  parks for another century of conservation, preservation, and public enjoyment.

                                                                                       
  Project efforts will improve parks and serve all Americans, especially our

                                                                                       
  nation's youth. Centennial Challenge signature projects provide no less than

                                                                                       
  fifty percent (50% of the total cost of each project or program is derived from

                                                                                       
  non-Federal sources).

                                                                                       
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:

                                                                                       
  Formula Grants (Cooperative Agreements).

                                                                                       
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

  For the purpose of sharing costs or services in carrying out authorized functions    
                                                                                       
  and responsibilities of the Secretar of Interior with respect to any unit or

                                                                                       
  program of the National Park System through Centennial Challenge projects

                                                                                       
  within the following five areas of emphasis: Stewardship, Environmental

                                                                                       
  Leadership, Recreational Experience, Educational and Professional Excellence.        
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Non-federal partners may include state agencies, Tribes, local governments, non-     
  governmental organizations, private companies, and private individuals. Non-         
  federal partners are expected to match NPS Centennial Challenge Cost Share           
  funds at or above 1:1 for their respective projects.                                 
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  State and local governments, private, public, profit, nonprofit organizations and    
  institutions who are positioned to contribute at least 50% of the value of projects  
  included in the list of approved projects and which support the NPS Centennial       
  Challenge.                                                                           
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Proposals that support the goals of the NPS Centennial Challenge including           
  commitment letters from partners demonstrating ability to contribute the             
  required match and readiness to complete the project. Proposals include              
  description of the project, proposed budget, commitments from recipients.            
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  Proposals are developed in coordination with NPS managers which are then



                                                                                  11-08
  submitted through the NPS Project Management Information System (PMIS) for
  priority setting by a panel who recommends to Regional Directors and the NPS
  Director projects for approval in accordance with Centennial Challenge
  priorities. The approved projects are placed on an eligible list to receive
  funding, when available. The NPS makes the final decisions on funding. This
  program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Upon determination of funded proposals by the NPS, selected applicants will
  complete SF-424, SF 424B Assurances for Non-Construction.
Award Procedure:
  Applicants/Proposals selected for funding are notified regarding the next steps to
  implement a project and are required to submit a project plan that outlines the
  project objectives and milestones and additional required documentation
  depending upon the method of project execution. A panel of NPS staff
  recommend approval to the NPS Director, who makes the final decision on
  awards.
Deadlines:
  Determined by NPS management and posted when available on
  http://www.nps.gov/2016 and www.grants.gov.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Projects eligible for funding are submitted up to 12 months in advance of
  funding determinations.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Requested funds shall not exceed 50 percent (50%) of eligible projects costs and
  shall be made on the condition thta non-Federal sources, including in-kind
  contributions of services or materials, provide the remainder of eligible project
  costs.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The project approval, execution and completion period is typically for a time
  period not to exceed 24 months. Specific requirements for project execution and
  completion are outlined in detailed project plans and budgets.
Reports:
  For projects under $100,000 the NPS will require a budget status update and
  project progress report on an annual basis. Projects over $100,000 must submit
  quarterly reports to the Centralized Centennial Acquisitions and Financial
  Assistance Team. All projects and activities are monitored for progress and
  compliance with the use of Quarterly and Final Narrative Reports and the
  Financial Status Report SF-269. Recipients are required to submit an SF-270
  for reimbursement payments.
Audits:
  Partners under cooperative agreements with the NPS for centennial projects must
  adhere to auditing requirements outlined in OMB Circular A-133, "Audits of
  States, Local Governments and Non-Profit Organizations." Partners who receive
  more than $500,000 in federal awards in a year are required to have an audit
  conducted by a third party. The NPS will conduct reviews of a sample of
  Centennial Challenge projects each year to assess compliance with the program's
  requirements and the effectiveness of the project in advancing centennial goals.
  The centennial project reviews will be conducted as part of the Service's annual
  A-123 programmatic review process and Acquisition Management Reviews.
Records:
  The recipient must maintain a complete, detailed accounting system to report
  expenditures of funds and accomplishments achieved under the award. Records,
  accounts, and supporting documents must be retained three years after
  submission for final request for reimbursement.
Account Identification:
  14-2645-0-1-303.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $0; FY 08 est $25,000,000; and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Varies - new program in fiscal year 2008.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  None. New program in fiscal year 2008.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  The Future of America's National Parks, May 2007, a report to the President
  presenting a bold vision for our National Parks.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Program Manager, Centennial Initiative, Department of the Interior, National
  Park Service, 1849 C Street, NW, Washington DC 20240.
Web Site Address:
  www.nps.gov/2016 .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  15.916, 15.921, and any authorized functions and responsibilities of the
  Secretary of the Interior with respect to any unit or program of the National Park
  System (as defined in section 16 U.S.C. 1c(a).
                                                                                  435
