EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                            
  None. New program for fiscal year 2008.                                               
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                       
  Proposed projects and programs must: Provide for authorized activities to             
  benefit one mor more of the 391 units of the National Park System; Contribute         
  toward at least one of the five centennial overarching goas as stated in The          
  Future of America's National Parks; Be consistent with all Federal, Department        
  of the Interior, and the National Park Service (NPS) management policies; and         
  park planning, compliance, and acquisition/assistance law, regulation and             
  policy; Require little or not additional recurring NPS operating funds to be          
  sustainable; Have a partner(s) willing to contribute at least 50% of the project      
  cost in cash from non-Federal sources as evidenced by a letter of commitment          
  form the partner(s); Are for projects that support specific performance goals.        
  Priority will be given to those identified in the centennial report, such as: address 
  a critical, high priority need of the NPS, have a ready, willing and able partner,    
  improve the efficiency and effectiveness of park management, operations, and          
  employees, imaginative, innovative and collaborative in meeting centennial            
  goals, benefit multiple parks or contribute to national initiatives, produce          
  measurable results, and consistent with Federal assistance regulations and laws.      
                                                                                        
                                                                                        
15.407 KEWEENAW NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK

                                                                                        
(NHP) AND KEWEENAW NHP ADVISORY COMMISSION                                              
PARTNER ENHANCEMENT GRANTS                                                              
      (Keweenaw Heritage Grants)                                                        
                                                                                        
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                         
  NATIONAL PARK SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR                                     
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                          
  Keweenaw NHP's Enabling Legislation: 16 U.S.C. 410: 410-6. Cooperative                
  Agreements: The Secretary, after consultation with the Commission, may enter          
  into cooperative agreements with owners of property within the park of                
  nationally significant historic or other cultural resources in order to provide for   
  interpretive exhibits or programs; 410-7(a). Financial and Technical Assistance:      
  The Secretary may provide to any owner of property within the park containing         
  nationally significant historic or cultural resources, in accordance with             
  cooperative agreements or grant agreements, as appropriate, such financial and        
  technical assistance to mark, interpret, and restore non-Federal properties within    
  the park as the Secretary determines appropriate to carry out the purposes of this    
  subchapter; and 410-8(a)(7). Keweenaw NHP Advisory Commission.                        
  Establishment and Duties: The Commission shall be authorized to carry out             
  historical, educational, or cultural programs which encourage or enhance              
  appreciation of the historic resources in the park, surrounding areas, and on the     
  Keweenaw Peninsula. 16 U.S.C. 470a. The National Historic Preservation Act            
                                                                                        
  of 1966 and 16 U.S.C. 461. The Historic Sites Act of 1935.

                                                                                        
OBJECTIVES:

                                                                                        
  Provide funds to enhance partner projects that will mark, interpret, or restore

                                                                                        
  non-Federal properties.

                                                                                        
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                    
  Project Grants.

                                                                                        
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

                                                                                        
  NPS Grants: Funding is to be used by owners of properties containing nationally

                                                                                        
  significant historic or cultural resources to mark, interpret, and restore non-

                                                                                        
  Federal properties within the park. The National Park Service shall have right of

                                                                                        
  access at reasonable times to public portions of the property related to the

                                                                                        
  enhancement funds for the purpose of conducting visitors through such property

                                                                                        
  and interpreting them to the public. No changes or alterations shall be made in

                                                                                        
  such properties except by mutual agreement between the NPS and the other

                                                                                        
  parties to the grant agreement(s). The availability of discretionary funding is

                                                                                        
  determined by Keweenaw NHP each fiscal year. Keweenaw NHP Advisory

                                                                                        
  Commission Grants: Funding is to be used by owners or operators of properties

                                                                                        
  containing local, state, or nationally significant historic or cultural resources to

                                                                                        
  mark, interpret, and restore properties on the Keweenaw Peninsula. The

                                                                                        
  availability of discretionary funding is determined by Keweenaw NHP Advisory

                                                                                        
  Commission each fiscal year.

                                                                                        
Applicant Eligibility:

                                                                                        
  For NPS Grants: Owners of properties within the legislated boundaries of

                                                                                        
  Keweenaw National Historical Park containing nationally significant historic or

                                                                                        
  cultural resources. For Keweenaw NHP Advisory Commission Grants: Owners

                                                                                        
  or operators of property containing local, state, or nationally significant historic

                                                                                        
  or cultural resources on the Keweenaw Peninsula.

                                                                                        
Beneficiary Eligibility:

                                                                                        
  For NPS Grants: Owners of properties within the legislated boundaries of

                                                                                        
  Keweenaw National Historical Park containing nationally significant historic or

                                                                                        
  cultural resources including state and local governments; public and private

                                                                                        
  nonprofit organizations; and individual, partnership, and corporate private

                                                                                        
  property owners. For Keweenaw NHP Advisory Commission Grants: Owners

                                                                                        
  or operators of properties on the Keweenaw Peninsula containing nationally

                                                                                        
  significant historic or cultural resources including state and local governments;

                                                                                        


436                                                                               11-08

  public and private nonprofit organizations; and individual, partnership, and
  corporate private property owners.
Credentials/Documentation:
  For NPS Grants: Documentation of ownership of the subject property is
  required of all applicants in the form of a registered deed or presentation of the
  most recent tax bill. All applicants other than individual property owners are
  required to cite laws or by-laws that authorize the organization to accept funds.
  For Keweenaw NHP Advisory Commission Grants: Documentation of
  ownership of the subject property or, for operators, permission of the property
  owner as well as documentation of ownership is required of all applicants in the
  form of a registered deed or presentation of the most recent tax bill. All
  applicants other than individual property owners are required to cite laws or By-
  Laws that authorize the organization to accept funds.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Consultation or assistance from the agency regarding this application may be
  available from the NPS or the Keweenaw NHP Advisory Commission, as
  appropriate. There are no pre-application requirements. This program is
  excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  For NPS Grants: Eligible applicants will be required to submit a written
  proposal/application and an Application for Federal Assistance (SF-424) to:
  Keweenaw NHP, ATTN: Grants Manager, PO Box 471, 25970 Red Jacket Road,
  Calumet, MI 49913, and will include a project title, property location of
  requested assistance, project objectives, and a budget proposal for the project
  reflecting federal and matching funds. For Keweenaw NHP Advisory
  Commission Grants: Eligible applicants will be required to submit a written
  proposal/application and an Application for Federal Assistance (SF-424) to:
  Keweenaw NHP Advisory Commission, ATTN: Grants Manager, PO Box 471,
  25970 Red Jacket Road, Calumet, MI 49913, and will include a project title,
  property location of requested assistance, project objectives, and a budget
  proposal for the project reflecting federal and matching funds.
Award Procedure:
  Application announcements will be posted utilizing the http://www.grants.gov
  website. Upon receipt of timely submissions, applications will be reviewed by a
  panel of reviewers. Notification of Awards will be provided to applicants by
  issuance of a Cooperative Agreement or Grant Agreement by the Agreements
  Technical Representative within the time specified on the announcement.
  Successful applicants must register on the Central Contractor Register (CCR)
  website at http://www.ccr.gov within 15 days of notice of award.
Deadlines:
  Application deadlines will be announced with the announcement of the specific
  opportunity.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Generally, 30 - 90 days.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  No. Awards will be project-specific or for a specified time period.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  For NPS Grants: The property owner/organization must be able to provide a
  cash match in accordance with the prevailing legislation at the time of
  disbursement. Current legislative match requirements will be posted with the
  specific grant opportunity. For Keweenaw NHP Advisory Commission Grants:
  The property owner or operator must be able to provide a match in accordance
  with the Keweenaw NHP Advisory Commission guidelines for the specific grant
  opportunity.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Assistance is provided on a project-specific basis or within a specified time
  period. Most projects are completed within months, but may vary depending on
  complexity and other factors.
Reports:
  Specific projects or activities for which funds are advanced shall be tracked and
  reported by submittal of Standard Form 270, Request for Advance or
  Reimbursement; Standard Form 272 Federal Cash Transaction Report; and a
  quarterly submittal of Standard Form 269 the Financial Status Report as outlined
  in 2 CFR 215.52. Additionally grant recipients will be required to submit a
  yearly narrative summary of accomplishments report to the National Park
  Service at Keweenaw NHP or the Keweenaw NHP Advisory Commission, as
  appropriate, at the end of each Fiscal Year until the project is completed and a
  final report is submitted. All projects and activities are monitored for progress
  and compliance with a mutually agreed upon scope of work.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations,
  non-federal entities that expend financial assistance $500,000 (for fiscal years
  ending after December 1, 2003) or more a year in Federal awards will have a
  single or a program specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities
  that expend less than $500,000 (for fiscal years ending after December 1, 2003)
  a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that
  year, except as noted in OMB Circular No. A-133. For commercial
