  organizations, in accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-110              
  (Revised, November 19, 1993; Further Amended September 30, 1999), Uniform           
  Administrative Requirements for Grants and Agreements With Institutions of          
  Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other Non-Profit Organizations. Audit              
  requirements will be incorporated into the award document.                          
Records:                                                                              
  Recipients will maintain records in accordance with the provisions of 43 CFR        
  Part 12, Subpart C, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and             
  Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments" and 43 CFR Part 12,          
  Subpart F, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Agreements           
  with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other Nonprofit               
  Organizations. The Cooperator must maintain a complete detailed accounting          
  system to report expenditures of Cooperative Agreement or Grant Agreement           
  funds and accomplishments achieved under the award. Records, accounts and           
  supporting documents must be retained for 3 years after submission for final        
  request for reimbursement.                                                          
Account Identification:                                                               
  None (variable, depending on the specific grant opportunity).                       
Obligations:                                                                          
  Funds will be obligated within the fiscal year of the award. Nothing in the         
  Agreements will be construed as binding the NPS or the Keweenaw NHP                 
  Advisory Commission to expend in any fiscal year any sum in excess of the           
  appropriation made by Congress for purposes of the Agreements in that fiscal        
  year.                                                                               
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  Not available.                                                                      
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  This is a new series of grant programs, with no history to report.                  
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Further information on Keweenaw NHP grant programs is available at                  
  http://www.nps.gov/kewe/grants .                                                    
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Tom Baker, Management Assistant, Keweenaw NHP, P.O. Box 471, 25970 Red              
  Jacket Road, Calumet, MI 49913. Phone: (906) 337-1104 ext. 131, Email:              
  thomas_m_baker@nps.gov .                                                            
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.nps.gov/kewe/grants .                                                    
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  None at this time.                                                                  
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Demonstrate ability of the organization or individual to successfully complete      
  the project. Past performance in Federal Financial Assistance programs.             
  Organization's ability to provide the required match. For NPS grants, ability to    
  provide public access in accordance with Keweenaw NHP's enabling legislation.       
  16 U.S.C. 410yy-6(1) and 7(1). Other specific project criteria developed for        
  each grant cycle.                                                                   
                                                                                      
15.421 ALASKA COASTAL MARINE INSTITUTE                                                
                                                                                      
   (ALASKA CMI)

                                                                                      
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  MINERALS MANAGEMENT SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE                                      
  INTERIOR                                                                            
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  43 U.S.C. 1345 (e); 43 U.S.C. 1346 Section 20.                                      
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  The Minerals Management Service Offshore Minerals Management and                    
  Minerals Revenue Management programs provide major economic and energy              
  benefits on a national and local level to the taxpayers, states and the American    
  Indian community. The Offshore Minerals Management program oversees the             
  exploration and development of oil, natural gas and other minerals and              
  renewable energy alternatives on the nations outer continental shelf. MMS           
  continues to look for better ways to serve the American people and to ensure that   
  the nation receives the best value for its resources now and into the future. The   
  program not only supports decisions made within the Department of Interior, but     
  also provides coastal states and local governments with the information             
  necessary to ensure that all stages of offshore energy and mineral activities are   
  conducted in a manner to protect both the human and natural environments.           
  Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (OCSLA) Section 1346 mandates the                 
  conduct of environmental and socioeconomic studies needed for the assessment        
  and management of environmental impacts on the human, marine, and coastal           
  environments which may be affected by oil and gas or other mineral                  
  development. OCSLA Section 1345 authorizes the use of cooperative                   
  agreements with affected States to meet the requirements of OCSLA, including        
  sharing of information, joint utilization of available expertise, formation of joint


                                                                                 11-08
  monitoring arrangements to carry out applicable Federal and State laws,
  regulations, and stipulations relevant to outer continental shelf operations both
  onshore and offshore. The purpose of the Alaska Coastal Marine Institute is to
  use highly qualified scientific expertise at local levels to collect and disseminate
  environmental information needed for OCS oil and gas and marine minerals
  decisions; address local and regional OCS-related environmental and resource
  issues of mutual interest; and strengthen the MMS-State partnership in
  addressing OCS oil and gas and marine minerals information needs.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The Environmental Studies Program allocates up to $750,000 per year for
  cooperative research at the University of Alaska. The University of Alaska
  invites proposals that are reviewed by a Technical Steering Committee including
  the University, State of Alaska, and MMS, and funds individual awards.
  Applications must be for scientific research projects which are within the MMS'
  area of responsibility. The majority of funds are used to support research that
  will enhance understanding of long-term effects of oil and gas, and marine
  minerals projects. Funds can also be used for attendance at national conferences
  for the dissemination of project results. Funds are not normally used for
  capitalization.
Applicant Eligibility:
  University of Alaska may make application for support by a named principal
  investigator. Non-UA scientists may participate in collaboration with a UA
  principal investigator.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Research scientists, Federal, State and local decision-makers, Native American
  Organizations, and the general public will ultimately benefit from the program.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Evidence of the applicants qualifications for performance of the proposed
  research including past professional publications, resumes, and lists of past
  projects.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Limited discussions regarding funding availability and program interest are
  permitted. Environmental Impact Statements are not required for these projects.
  Executive Order 12372 does not apply.
Application Procedure:
  Proposals are requested for mission-relevant research likely to provide needed
  information for OCS oil and gas resource management decisions. Proposals
  must include a full statement of work, estimated budget, and resumes. The
  standard SF-424 application forms required by 2 CFR Part 215.12, and the
  Department of the Interior Code of Federal Regulations at 43 CFR Part 12,
  Subpart F, or its revisions, must be used.
Award Procedure:
  Awards are made on the basis of a competitive peer review of proposals by a
  panel consisting of government research managers and external reviewers, as
  appropriate. Criteria for judging proposals include mission relevance, technical
  merit, and the quality and appropriateness of the personnel including past
  performance and publication record, project management, logistics plan, safety
  management, permits and interagency coordination, budget/matching funds, and
  where appropriate, minimization of impacts. Notification of an award is issued.
  It is anticipated that 6-12 applications will be received and 6 awards will be
  granted in FY 2009.
Deadlines:
  Proposals are due by November 15, 2008.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 150 to 360 days.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Recipients share costs on a one-dollar-for-one-dollar contribution across the
  program. In any fiscal year, the collective CMI match commitment must equal
  or exceed MMS contributions. On rare occasions exceptions may be considered.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Cooperative agreements will normally be awarded for 1 to 5 years, with funding
  awarded as a lump sum, or added as funds become available.
Reports:
  Quarterly progress reports and an annual report on the progress of the project
  funded under the cooperative agreement and presentations at a session of the
  publicly held MMS Information Transfer Meetings are required. A draft final,
  proof copy, and final report; draft and final technical summary; articles based on
  the research published in journals, and presentation slides are required for each
  award. Dissemination of the research results conducted under the CMI at
  professional society meetings and symposia is encouraged. Annual financial
  reports using OMB Standard Form SF-269 are also required.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations",
                                                                                     437
