  nonfederal entities that receive financial assistance of $500,000 or more in       
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that   
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 or more in Federal        
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted   
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                             
Records:                                                                             
  All records must be maintained for 3 years after submission of the final financial 
  report.                                                                            
Account Identification:                                                              
  14-1917-0-1-302; 14-8370-0-7-302.                                                  
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $500,000; FY 08 $750,000; FY 09 estimate            
  $750,000.                                                                          
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  $75,000 to $250,000; $169,000.                                                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  The Alaska Coastal Marine Institute currently funds over 30 competitively          
  awarded ongoing extramural research funding commitments. This cutting-edge         
  research has already and will in the future benefit the management of the OCS      
  and increase understanding of the potential impacts of offshore oil and gas        
  activities. Projects are underway to improve understanding of: ocean circulation   
  and physical transport processes and their role in fate and behavior of potential  
  spilled oil in areas offshore Alaska; marine biological resources their health and 
  habitat use; background levels of chemicals that can be associated with oil and    
  gas development activities.                                                        
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  None.                                                                              
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  Kate Wedemeyer, Telephone: 907-334-5278; Fax 907-334-5242; Email address:          
  kate.wedemeyer@mms.gov.                                                            
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  James Cimato, Minerals Management Service, 381 Elden Street, MS-4041,              
  Herndon, VA 20170. Telephone: (703) 787-1721; Fax: (703) 787-1053; E-mail          
  address: james.cimato@mms.gov.                                                     
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.mms.gov/eppd/sciences/esp/profiles/partners/cmi/index.htm and           
  http://www.sfos.uaf.edu/cmi/.                                                      
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  15.422, Louisiana State University (LSU) Coastal Marine Institute (CMI);           
  15.423, Minerals Management Service (MMS) Environmental Studies Program            
  (ESP).                                                                             
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  The MMS Alaska Coastal Marine Institute funds studies for better                   
  understanding marine, coastal or human environments affected or potentially        
  affected by offshore oil and gas or other mineral exploration and extraction on    
  the outer continental shelf. Recent efforts include field observations, laboratory 
  experiments and modeling studies of environmental, social, economic, or            
  cultural processes related to offshore OCS gas and oil activities.                 
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Panels of MMS, and non-MMS scientists (government, public and private sector       
  as appropriate), review and evaluate proposals. Criteria for judging proposals     
  include mission relevance, technical merit, and the quality and appropriateness    
  of the personnel including past performance and publication record, project        
  management, logistics plan, safety management, permits and interagency             
  coordination, budget/matching funds, and where appropriate, minimization of        
  impacts.                                                                           
                                                                                     
15.422 LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (LSU) COASTAL                                      
                                                                                     
MARINE INSTITUTE (CMI)                                                               
      (LSU CMI)                                                                      
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  MINERALS MANAGEMENT SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE                                     
  INTERIOR                                                                           
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  43 U.S.C. 1345 (e); 43 U.S.C. 1346 Section 20.                                     
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  The Minerals Management Service Offshore Minerals Management and                   
  Minerals Revenue Management programs provide major economic and energy             
  benefits on a national and local level to the taxpayers, States and the American   
  Indian community. The Offshore Minerals Management program oversees the            
  exploration and development of oil, natural gas and other minerals and             
  renewable energy alternatives on the nations outer continental shelf. MMS          
  continues to look for better ways to serve the American people and to ensure that  
  the nation receives the best value for its resources now and into the future. The  
  program not only supports decisions made within the Department of Interior, but    
  also provides coastal states and local governments with the information            
  necessary to ensure that all stages of offshore energy and mineral activities are  
  conducted in a manner to protect both the human and natural environments.          


438                                                                            11-08

  Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act Section 1346 mandates the conduct of
  environmental and socioeconomic studies needed for the assessment and
  management of environmental impacts on the human, marine, and coastal
  environments which may be affected by oil and gas or other mineral
  development. OCSLA Section 1345 authorizes the use of cooperative
  agreements with affected States to meet the requirements of OCSLA, including
  sharing of information, joint utilization of available expertise, formation of joint
  monitoring arrangements to carry out applicable Federal and State laws,
  regulations, and stipulations relevant to outer continental shelf operations both
  onshore and offshore. The purpose of the Louisiana State University Coastal
  Marine Institute (CMI) is to use highly qualified scientific expertise at local
  levels to collect and disseminate environmental information needed for OCS oil
  and gas and marine minerals decisions; address local and regional OCS-related
  environmental and resource issues of mutual interest; and strengthen the MMS-
  State partnership in addressing OCS oil and gas and marine minerals
  information needs.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The Environmental Studies Program allocates $1,000,000 for cooperative
  research via LSU. Applications must be for scientific research projects which
  are within the MMS area of responsibility. The majority of funds are used to
  support research that will enhance understanding of long-term effects of oil and
  gas, marine minerals and alternate energy development projects. Funds can also
  be used for attendance at national conferences for the dissemination of project
  results. Funds are not normally used for capitalization.
Applicant Eligibility:
  To apply for a research award, the recipient is asked to provide the name of the
  Principal Investigator. If an applicant other than LSU wants to apply, they must
  do so in collaboration with an LSU research scientist.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Research scientists, Federal, State and local decision-makers, Native American
  Organizations, and the general public will ultimately benefit from the program.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Evidence of the applicants qualifications for performance of the proposed
  research including past professional publications, resumes, and lists of past
  projects.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Limited discussions regarding funding availability and program interest are
  permitted. Environmental Impact Statements are not required for these projects.
  Executive Order 12372 does not apply.
Application Procedure:
  Applicants will be encouraged to post their applications on Grants.gov.
  Proposals must include a full statement of work, estimated budget, and resumes.
  The standard SF-424 application forms required by 2 CFR Part 215.12, and the
  Department of the Interior Code of Federal Regulations at 43 CFR Part 12,
  Subpart F, or its revisions, must be used.
Award Procedure:
  Awards are made on the basis of a competitive peer review of proposals by a
  panel consisting of government research managers and external reviewers, as
  appropriate. Criteria for judging proposals include mission relevance, technical
  merit, and the quality and appropriateness of the personnel including past
  performance and publication record, project management, logistics plan, safety
  management, permits and interagency coordination, budget/matching funds, and
  where appropriate, minimization of impacts. Notification of an award is issued.
  It is anticipated that ten applications will be received and six awards will be
  granted in FY 2010.
Deadlines:
  Deadline for proposals is November 18, 2008.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 180 to 270 days.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Recipients share costs on a dollar-for-dollar contribution across the program. In
  any fiscal year, the collective LSU CMI match commitment must equal or
  exceed MMS contributions.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Cooperative agreements will normally be awarded for 1 to 5 years, with funding
  awarded as a lump sum, or added as funds become available.
Reports:
  Quarterly progress reports and an annual report on the progress of the project
  funded under the cooperative agreement and presentations at a session of the
  publicly held MMS Information Transfer Meetings are required. A draft final,
  proof copy, and final report; draft and final technical summary; articles based on
  the research published in journals, and presentation slides are required for each
  award. Dissemination of the research results conducted under the CMI at
  professional society meetings and symposia is encouraged. Annual financial
