  reports using OMB Standard Form SF-269 are also required.                           
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June          
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations",      
  nonfederal entities that receive financial assistance of $500,000 or more in        
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that    
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 or more in Federal         
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted    
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                              
Records:                                                                              
  All records must be maintained for 3 years after submission of the final financial  
  report.                                                                             
Account Identification:                                                               
  14-1917-0-1-302; 14-8370-0-7-302.                                                   
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Cooperative Agreements)FY 07 $1,400,000; FY 08 est $1,000,000; and FY 09           
  est $1,000,000.                                                                     
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  $32,000 to $500,000; $190,000.                                                      
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  The Louisiana State University Coastal Marine Institute currently funds over 50     
  competitively awarded ongoing research awards. This cutting-edge research has       
  already and will in the future benefit the management of the OCS, and increase      
  understanding of the potential impacts of offshore oil and gas activities. Projects 
  are underway to improve understanding of: ocean circulation and physical            
  transport processes and their role in the fate and behavior of potential spilled oil
  in Gulf of Mexico; marine biological resources - their health and habitat use; and  
  background levels of chemicals that can be associated with oil and gas              
  development activities.                                                             
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  The Environmental Studies Program is described in 30 CFR Chapter II                 
  Subchapter B Subpart M Studies. Quarterly reports are available at                  
  http://cmi.lsu.edu/reports.asp. Final reports are available online in the Minerals  
  Management Service Environmental Studies Program Information System at:             
  http://www.gomr.mms.gov/homepg/espis/espisfront.asp.                                
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Deborah Epperson, Telephone: 504-736-3257; Fax: 504-736-2901; E-mail:               
  Deborah.Epperson@mms.gov.                                                           
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  James Cimato, Minerals Management Service, 381 Elden Street, MS-4041,               
  Herndon, VA 20170; Telephone: 703- 787-1721; Fax: (703) 787-1053; E-mail:           
  james.cimato@mms.gov.                                                               
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.mms.gov/eppd/sciences/esp/profiles/partners/cmi/index.htm.               
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  15.421, Alaska Coastal Marine Institute; 15.423, Minerals Management Service        
  (MMS) Environmental Studies Program (ESP).                                          
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  The MMS LSU Coastal Marine Institute funds studies for better understanding         
  marine, coastal or human environments affected or potentially affected by           
  offshore oil and gas or other mineral exploration and extraction on the outer       
  continental shelf. Recent efforts include field observations, laboratory            
  experiments and modeling studies of environmental, social, economic, or             
  cultural processes related to offshore OCS gas and oil activities.                  
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Panels of MMS, and non-MMS scientists (government, public and private sector        
  as appropriate), review and evaluate proposals. Criteria for judging proposals      
  include mission relevance, technical merit, and the quality and appropriateness     
  of the personnel including past performance and publication record, project         
  management, logistics plan, safety management, permits and interagency              
  coordination, budget/matching funds, and where appropriate, minimization of         
  impacts.                                                                            
                                                                                      
15.423 MINERALS MANAGEMENT SERVICE (MMS)                                              
ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES PROGRAM (ESP)                                                   
                                                                                      
   (ESP)                                                                              
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  MINERALS MANAGEMENT SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE                                      
  INTERIOR                                                                            
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  43 U.S.C. 1345 (e); 43 U.S.C. 1346 Section 20.                                      
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  The Minerals Management Service Offshore Minerals Management and                    
  Minerals Revenue Management programs provide major economic and energy              
  benefits on a national and local level to the taxpayers, states and the American    
  Indian community. The Offshore Minerals Management program oversees the             
  exploration and development of oil, natural gas and other minerals and              
  renewable energy alternatives on the nations outer continental shelf. MMS           


                                                                                 11-08
  continues to look for better ways to serve the American people and to ensure that
  the nation receives the best value for its resources now and into the future. The
  program not only supports decisions made within the Department of Interior, but
  also provides coastal states and local governments with the information
  necessary to ensure that all stages of offshore energy and mineral activities are
  conducted in a manner to protect both the human and natural environments. The
  Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (OCSLA) Section 1346 mandates the
  conduct of environmental and socioeconomic studies needed for the assessment
  and management of environmental impacts on the human, marine, and coastal
  environments which may be affected by oil and gas or other mineral
  development. OCSLA Section 1345 authorizes the use of cooperative
  agreements with affected States to meet the requirements of OCSLA, including
  sharing of information, joint utilization of available expertise, formation of joint
  monitoring arrangements to carry out applicable Federal and State laws,
  regulations, and stipulations relevant to outer continental shelf operations both
  onshore and offshore. The purpose of the Environmental Studies Program is to
  obtain the information needed for the assessment and the management of
  environmental impacts; to predict impacts on marine biota; and to monitor the
  human, marine, and coastal environments to provide time series and data trend
  information.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The assistance can be used to conduct environmental research to satisfy the
  information needs associated with oil and gas, alternate energy and marine
  mineral development on the outer continental shelf. Applications must be for
  scientific research projects which are within the MMS' area of responsibility.
  The majority of funds are used to support research that will enhance
  understanding of long-term effects of oil and gas, marine minerals and alternate
  energy development projects. Funds can also be used for attendance at national
  conferences for the dissemination of project results. Funds are not normally used
  for capitalization.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State agencies and public universities may apply. More than one institution may
  collaborate in the preparation of an application for assistance.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Research scientists, Federal, state and local decision-makers, Native American
  Organizations, and the general public will ultimately benefit from the program.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Evidence of the applicant's qualifications for performance of the proposed
  research including past professional publications, resumes, and lists of past
  projects.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Limited discussions regarding funding availability and program interest are
  permitted. Environmental Impact Statements are not required for these projects.
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." Applicants should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in their State to find out if the State has
  selected this program for review and for information on the process the State
  requires when applying for Federal assistance.
Application Procedure:
  Applicants are encouraged to post their applications on www.grants.gov. The
  standard SF-424 application forms required by OMB Circular A-102, 2 CFR
  Part 215.12, and the Department of the Interior Code of Federal Regulations at
  43 CFR Part 12, Subparts C and F, or its revisions, must be used.
Award Procedure:
  Awards are made on the basis of a competitive peer review of proposals by a
  panel consisting of government research managers and external reviewers, as
  appropriate. Criteria for judging proposals include mission relevance, technical
  merit, and the quality and appropriateness of the personnel, project management,
  logistics plan, safety management, permits and interagency coordination,
  budget/matching funds, and where appropriate, minimization of impacts.
  Notification of an award is issued. It is anticipated that five applications will be
  received and five cooperative agreement awards will be granted in FY 2009.
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 90 - 270 days.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Renewals can be made through submission and approval of a project agreement.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  No statutory requirements. Cost sharing of 1:1 is encouraged.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Cooperative agreements will normally be awarded for 1 to 8 years, with funding
  awarded as a lump sum, or added as funds become available.
Reports:
  Quarterly progress reports; a presentation at periodic MMS Information Transfer
  Meetings; a draft final, proof copy, and final report; draft and final technical
                                                                                     439
