  states.                                                                              
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  The producing coastal states, their eligible coastal political subdivisions, and the 
  general public will ultimately benefit from the program.                             
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Applicants must provide documentation that they have met state and local             
  permitting requirements.                                                             
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  Prior to submitting any grant applications an eligible state must submit to MMS,     
  for approval, a State Plan that provides detail on how a State and its Coastal       
  Political Subdivisions (CPS) will use the CIAP funds and implement the state         
  plan. To assist the States in developing a plan the MMS issued final Coastal         
  Impact Assistance Program Guidelines, and published a Notice of Availability in      
  the Federal Register, September 29, 2006. Coastal Political Subdivisions and         
  State are required by the Act to work together to develop their Plan. The plan       
  should contain prescribed components from Section 384 of the amended OCS             
  Lands Act, which includes an implementation program representing both parties'       
  interests. The State point of contact submits the Plan to the MMS for approval.      
  The MMS will determine within 20 calendar days after receipt of a Plan or Plan       
  amendment whether additional information is needed. If no deficiencies are           
  identified and the required number of copies has been received, the Plan or          
  amendment will be deemed complete. Once a Plan or amendment is determined            
  complete, MMS will have 90 calendar days to notify the State in writing that the     
  Plan or amendment is approved, disapproved, or remains under review (in which        
  case the Plan or amendment is neither approved nor disapproved). If MMS fails        
  to provide such written notice to the State, the Plan or amendment is deemed to      
  be disapproved. If MMS notifies the State that the Plan or amendment remains         
  under review, MMS will also provide the State with an estimate of the amount of      
  additional time necessary to complete its review. If a Plan or amendment is          
                                                                                       
  disapproved, the State may revise and resubmit it. The MMS will then have 20

                                                                                       
  calendar days to determine completeness; once MMS determines that the revised

                                                                                       
  Plan or amendment is complete, MMS will then have 90 calendar days to

                                                                                       
  approve or disapprove the revised Plan or amendment. On April 16, 2007 MMS

                                                                                       
  released the recipient allotment amounts that will be eligible to spend in 2007

                                                                                       
  and 2008. The States and CPSs will use this information to develop grant project

                                                                                       
  applications with detailed descriptions of their individual projects, including

                                                                                       
  detailed breakdowns of costs. The recipients will provide in each application the

                                                                                       
  current status of Federal, State and local permits required for the project. A

                                                                                       
  completed grant project application is to be submitted electronically through

                                                                                       
  Grants.gov. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.

                                                                                       
Application Procedure:

                                                                                       
  Specific projects submitted to the MMS for funding are subject to the

                                                                                       
  Department of the Interior Regulations at 43 CFR Part 12, Subparts C and E, or

                                                                                       
  any subsequent revisions. The OMB SF-424 application forms must be used for

  this program. Applications are submitted electronically through Grants.gov.

Award Procedure:                                                                       
  The MMS provides a notice of award to the recipient.                                 
Deadlines:

  A Plan or acknowledgement of good intent to provide a Plan must be submitted         
  no later than July 1, 2009.

Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  MMS will have 90 days or as time is needed to approve or disapprove State            
  Plans. No time limit is established for review of projects.                          
Appeals:                                                                               
  Applicants can appeal disapproval of Plans or project applications no later than     
  December 2010.                                                                       
Renewals:                                                                              
  Proposals are submitted for a project period. Projects that were approved and        
  funded during the previous project period may be submitted as renewals for           
  subsequent project periods.                                                          
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  In accordance with the language of the Act no State will receive less than 1         
  percent of the $250 million to be disbursed per year. Of the percentage received     
  by a State, 65 percent remains with the State, and 35 percent is awarded to the      
  coastal political subdivisions (CPS).                                                
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Grants will normally be awarded in 12-month budget periods.                          
Reports:                                                                               
  Annual and final technical and financial reports (using the SF-269) are required.    
Audits:                                                                                
  Applicants agree to give the sponsoring agency, the Comptroller General or           
  other authorized audit agency access to and the right to examine records related     
  to the award. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133            
  (Revised, June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit       
  Organizations", nonfederal entities that receive financial assistance of $500,000    
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit             
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 in       
  Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except      
  as noted in Circular No. A-133.                                                      
Records:                                                                               


442                                                                              11-08

  All records must be maintained for 3 years after submission of the final financial
  report.
Account Identification:
  14-5572-0-2-306.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $250,000,000; FY 08 $250,000,000; and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  None.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  This program begins in Fiscal Year 2007. There are no program
  accomplishments.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  www.mms.gov/offshore/CIAP/PDFs/CIAPFinalGuidelines100206.pdf.
Regional or Local Office:
  Alaska: MMS Regional CIAP Representative, Minerals Management Service,
  OCS Region, 3801 Centerpoint Drive, Suite 500, Anchorage, Alaska 99503;
  Alabama, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas: MMS Regional CIAP
  Representative, Minerals Management Service, Gulf of Mexico OCS Region,
  1201 Elmwood Park Boulevard, MS 5400, New Orleans, Louisiana 70123;
  California: MMS Regional CIAP Representative, Minerals Management
  Service, Pacific OCS Region, 770 Paseo Camarillo, Camarillo, California 93010
  .
Headquarters Office:
  National CIAP Coordinator, 381 Elden Street, MS 4040, Herndon, Virginia
  20170.
Web Site Address:
  www.mms.gov/offshore/CIAPmain.htm .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  A Coastal Impact Assistance Program is managed by the National Oceanic and
  Atmospheric Administration. It was a one-year (2001) disbursement of $150
  million to 7 states and 147 coastal political subdivisions. It was enacted with
  language similar to that guiding the CIAP presently under MMS direction.
  "Bayou Lamoque Floodgate Removal," Remove existing floodgates from a
  freshwater introduction structure to allow for the unimpeded flow of water from
  the Mississippi River into Bayou Lamoque and the surrounding marshes. This
  will create approximately 620 acres of new march over 20 years providing the
  coastline needed buffering and reduction in coastline erosion.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Criteria for approving proposals are identified in the Coastal Impact Assistance
  Program Guidelines located at:
  http://www.mms.gov/offshore/CIAP/PDFs/CIAPFinalGuidelines100206.pdf and
  the program announcement found on Grants.gov.
15.427 FEDERAL OIL AND GAS ROYALTY
MANAGEMENT
   (FOGRMA)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  MINERALS MANAGEMENT SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE
  INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Federal Oil and Gas Royalty Management Act of 1982, Public Law 97-451, as
  amended.
OBJECTIVES:
  To ensure that all oil, gas, and solid minerals originated on the public lands and
  on the Outer Continental Shelf are properly accounted for under the direction of
  the Secretary of the Interior, and for other purposes.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  All projects are restricted to State and Tribal Governments. No discretionary
  funds are available under this program.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State and Tribal Governments as specified in Title II of the Federal Oil and Gas
  Royalty Management Act of 1982, as amended.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  States and Federally recognized Tribal Governments that receive funds collected
  as a result of the compliance activities on Federal and Indian mineral leases.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Must follow 30 CFR Parts 200 to 699 Mineral Resources, General
  Accountability Offices (GAO) Generally Accepted Government Audit Standards
  (Yellowbook), and Minerals Management Service Audit and Compliance
  Procedures.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point-of-contact in his or her State for more information
