  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the 
  State has selected the program for review.                                          
Application Procedure:                                                                
  For grants awarded, the standard application forms furnished by the Federal         
  agency as required by 43 CFR Part 12, Subpart C, "Uniform Administrative            
  Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local               
  Governments" will apply. Also, reference the procedures outlined in 30 CFR          
  227.103 entitled, "What must a States delegation proposal contain?" For Indian      
  tribes reference the procedures outlined in 30 CFR 228.100 entitled, "Entering

  into an Agreement."                                                                 
Award Procedure:

  Projects are reviewed at the Minerals Management Service (MMS) Minerals             
  Revenue Management (MRM) Program level, and funding recommendations are             
  made through each State and Tribe's annual work plan. Final budget approvals        
  rest with the MMS/MRM Associate Directors Washington Office.                        
Deadlines:                                                                            
  For recipients on the Federal fiscal year cycle, applications are due on July 1st of
  each year. For recipients operating on an alternate fiscal year, applications are   
  due 90 days prior to award.                                                         
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Projects are approved through the Bureau budget cycle that normally requires 90     
  days to receive funding.                                                            
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  For State agreements, 30 CFR 227.110 entitled, When and for how long are            
  delegation agreements effective? For Tribal agreements, 30 CFR 228.101              
  entitled, Terms of Agreement.                                                       
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  This program has no statutory formula and no matching requirements.                 
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  No specific restrictions, however, projects are funded on a year to year basis, and 
  funds are expended during a particular fiscal year. Funding is released either      
  monthly or quarterly through the fiscal year.                                       
Reports:                                                                              
  Performance monitoring schedules and/or progress reports are required               
  quarterly. Financial status reports are required at the end of the yearly           
  performance period.                                                                 
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June          
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,       
  Nonfederal entities that receive financial assistance of $500,000 or more in        
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that    
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal          
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted    
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                              
Records:                                                                              
  Records relating to work performed and costs are kept by the Bureau. There is       
  no fixed records schedule. Records for grants awarded to State and Local            
  Governments will be maintained in accordance with the provisions of 43 CFR          
  Part 12, Subpart C, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and             
  Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments."                             
Account Identification:                                                               
  14-1917-0-1-302.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $9,490,000; FY 08 $10,180,000; and FY 09             
  est $10,480,000.                                                                    
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  $70,000 to $2,100,000; $536,000.                                                    
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  State and Tribal compliance activities contributed to meeting Government            
  Performance and Results Act (GPRA) goals for the MMS. For fiscal year 2008,         
  18 applications were received and awarded.                                          
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  MMS's cooperative (tribal) and delegated (State) audit program is basically         
  guided by the provisions in 30 CFR Parts 227, 228, and 229. States and Tribes       
  use the guidance contained in the GAO Yellowbook and two MMS procedural             
  manuals for audits and compliance activities.                                       
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Mr. Patrick Milano, P.O. Box 25165, Mail Stop 390B2, Denver, CO 80225-              
  0165. Telephone: (303) 231-3124, fax (303) 231-3473, email:                         
  patrick.milano@mms.gov.                                                             
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Associate Director for Minerals Revenue Management, Minerals Management             
  Service, 1849 C St., NW., Mail Stop 4230, Washington, DC 20240. Telephone:          
  (202) 208-3500.                                                                     
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.mms.gov                                                                  
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
                                                                                      
                                                                                 11-08
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Cooperative agreements with States and Tribes to conduct audits, investigations
  and inspections related to mineral payments made to the MMS which are
  attributable to leased Federal and Indian lands within State and Tribal
  boundaries and on the Outer Continental Shelf.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Criteria used to select assistance proposals are based on a balanced review
  including relevance to program objectives, merit, and cost effectiveness.
15.428 MARINE GAS HYDRATE RESEARCH ACTIVITIES
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  MINERALS MANAGEMENT SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE
  INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) Lands Act, 43 U.S.C. 1331, Gas Hydrates
  Research Act and the Marine Minerals Research Act.
OBJECTIVES:
  To characterize and monitor gas hydrate deposits on OCS Block MC-118 in the
  Gulf of Mexico.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The funds must be used for gas hydrate research activities in the OCS of the
  Gulf of Mexico, specifically for a permanent gas hydrates monitoring station in
  Block MC-118. The cooperative agreements are awarded to the Center for
  Marine Resources and Environmental Technology (CMRET) and the Gulf of
  Mexico Gas Hydrates Research Consortium (GOMGHRC), based at the
  University of Mississippi.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Proposals are received from the CMRET (and qualified subcontractors through
  CMRET) for research and scientific sensory equipment for the monitoring
  station. Applicants must have expertise in marine gas hydrates.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Organizations participating in the project, as well as the general public.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Technical Proposals are submitted to the MMS which furnish evidence of the
  applicant's qualifications for performance of the proposed research.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Applicants attended workshops and general meetings of the Gulf of Mexico Gas
  Hydrates Research Consortium held by the CMRET at the University of
  Mississippi. Research requirements were developed at those meetings for the
  upcoming year. At that time the applicants and the MMS decided which projects
  will be funded for the upcoming year. E.O. 12372 applies to this program.
Application Procedure:
  This program is subject to the Department of the Interior regulations at 43 CFR
  Part 12, Subparts C and D, or any subsequent revisions. The standard SF-424
  application forms must be used for this program. Applicants will be asked to
  submit their proposals electronically through Grants.gov.
Award Procedure:
  An internal MMS review of the proposals is conducted including convening a
  panel to discuss the proposals and making the final decision on the funding for
  the project. A notification of a cooperative agreement award is issued so the
  project can begin.
Deadlines:
  June of each year, as long as the MMS has received specific funding for this
  program.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  90 days.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Projects that were approved and funded during the previous fiscal year may be
  submitted as renewals for subsequent years.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The MMS Gas hydrates Research Program encourages matched contributions
  from other interested Federal agencies.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Cooperative agreements will normally be awarded in 12-month budget periods.
Reports:
  Annual and final technical and financial reports using the OMB SF-269 form are
  required.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations",
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 or more in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
                                                                                    443
