  All records must be maintained for 3 years after submission of the final financial   
  report.                                                                              
Account Identification:                                                                
  14-1917-0-1-302.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  FY 07 $0; FY 08 est $850,000; and FY 09 est $0.                                      
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  $0 to $850,000.                                                                      
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  To date, about 2/3 of the components of the monitoring station have been placed      
  at the site and data are being retrieved. The site has also been extensively         
  surveyed and sampled.                                                                
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  Regulations include the OCS Lands Act, Gas Hydrates Research Act, and the            
  Marine Minerals Research Act (1996).                                                 
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  New Orleans Office: MMS, GOM OCS Region, 1201 Elmwood Park Blvd.,                    
  New Orleans, LA 70123-2394.                                                          
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  MMS, 381 Elden Street, MS-4010, Herndon, VA 20170.                                   
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.mms.gov/offshore/gashydrates.htm .                                        
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  None.                                                                                
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  Research work and the development and placement of sensory components for

                                                                                       
  the gas hydrates monitoring station at Block MC-118 was funded by the MMS

                                                                                       
  in 2001-2006.

                                                                                       
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

                                                                                       
  Not applicable.

                                                                                       
                                                                                       
15.504 WATER RECLAMATION AND REUSE PROGRAM                                             
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:

                                                                                       
  BUREAU OF RECLAMATION, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                                                                                       
AUTHORIZATION:

  Reclamation Wastewater and Groundwater Study and Facilities Act, Title XVI,          
  Public Law 102-575, as amended; Reclamation Recycling and Water                      
  Conservation Act of 1996, Public Law 104-266; Oregon Public Lands Transfer           
  and Protection Act of 1998, Public Law 105-321; Consolidated Appropriation           
  Act of 2000, Public Law 106-544; Hawaii Water Resources Act of 2000, Public          
  Law 106-566; Lakehaven Utilities District, WA, Project, 2002, Public Law 107-        
                                                                                       
  344; Consolidated Appropriations Resolution, 2003, Public Law 108-7; San

                                                                                       
  Diego Creek Watershed, CA, Project, 2004, Public Law 108-233; Williamson

                                                                                       
  County, TX, Project, Public Law 108-316; Hawaii Water Resources Act of

                                                                                       
  2005, Public Law 109-70.

                                                                                       
OBJECTIVES:

                                                                                       
  This Title gives Reclamation general authority to conduct appraisal and

                                                                                       
  feasibility studies on water reclamation and reuse projects. It also provides

                                                                                       
  general authority for research and demonstration programs to test water

                                                                                       
  reclamation and reuse technologies. Reclamation may also participate in

                                                                                       
  construction of reuse projects after congressional authorization of the project.

                                                                                       
  The original Act provided authority to participate in the design and construction

                                                                                       
  of five specific projects in California and Arizona. The 1996 Act authorized 16

                                                                                       
  additional recycling projects and 2 desalination demonstration projects.

                                                                                       
  Subsequent amendments to Title XVI and other individual acts authorized nine

                                                                                       
  additional construction projects.

                                                                                       
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:

                                                                                       
  Formula Grants (Cooperative Agreements).

                                                                                       
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

                                                                                       
  Reclamation is restricted by law to activities in the 17 Western States, unless

                                                                                       
  otherwise authorized by Congress, as was done by Public Law 106-566, which

                                                                                       
  extended Reclamation's authority to conduct Title XVI investigations to include

                                                                                       
  Hawaii. The nonfederal sponsor must complete a feasibility study, including

                                                                                       
  NEPA (National Environmental Policy Act) compliance, complete a cost-share

                                                                                       
  agreement with Reclamation, and furnish a statement of financial capability of

                                                                                       
  the project sponsor to fund the nonfederal share to Reclamation prior to

                                                                                       
  receiving construction appropriations from Congress for the Federal cost share.

                                                                                       
  Operation and Maintenance (O&M) costs for the constructed project must be

                                                                                       
  furnished by the nonfederal sponsor. Federal contributions for demonstration

                                                                                       
  projects that exceed 25 percent of the cost cannot be made unless the Secretary

                                                                                       
  (of the Interior) determines that the project is not feasible without such Federal

                                                                                       
  contribution. Although the Act provides that Reclamation may furnish up to 50

                                                                                       
  percent of O&M costs for demonstration projects, it is Reclamation policy not to

                                                                                       
  provide funds for this purpose.

                                                                                       
Applicant Eligibility:

                                                                                       
  A legally organized nonfederal entity to sponsor the project is required, such as

                                                                                       
  an irrigation district or a municipality. The applicant must be able to furnish the

                                                                                       
  nonfederal cost share and be able to assume the operation and maintenance of

                                                                                       
  the project upon completion of construction. Research projects may also be           


444                                                                              11-08

  undertaken by colleges and universities and architectural and engineering firms.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  A legally organized nonfederal entity such as an irrigation district or an
  organization within a municipality, such as the water department.
Credentials/Documentation:
  A feasibility report must be completed, either by the nonfederal sponsor alone or
  with the assistance of the Federal government. A statement of financial
  capability by the nonfederal sponsor must be provided to Reclamation. This
  statement demonstrates the capability of the sponsor to fund its portion of the
  feasibility report, its share of construction costs, and the ability to fund and
  assume responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the completed
  project. A cost-share agreement must be completed with Reclamation before
  funds can be requested for appropriation for construction.
Preapplication Coordination:
  An environmental impact assessment or environmental impact statement may be
  required. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372. It is
  recommended nonfederal entities contact the appropriate Reclamation office to
  discuss the processes and procedures for participation.
Application Procedure:
  Discretionary funding opportunities will be posted on Grants.gov. The standard
  application forms furnished by the Federal agency and required by 43 CFR Part
  12, Subparts C and F, must be used for this program. The required documents
  must be furnished to Reclamation prior to authorization for construction. Upon
  satisfactory completion of these documents, Reclamation may seek authorization
  for the project and initiate appropriation requests. Reclamation has limited
  funding authority for this program, therefore requests for project construction
  authority may be delayed until a funding request can be made that is within the
  authorized limit.
Award Procedure:
  After funds are appropriated, Reclamation will complete the necessary
  paperwork to transfer funds.
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Authorization of a project and appropriation of funds for its construction are
  dictated by the schedule of Congress with respect to appropriating funds.
  Because of the limitation on the ability of Reclamation to request funding for
  this program, delay can be anticipated in requesting funds for construction.
  Depending on the number of requests for funding, this delay could be several
  years.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Continuation of funding from one fiscal year to the next to complete a project is
  at the discretion of the Congress.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Appraisal level studies are nonreimbursable, that is, if the Federal government
  either completes or participates in an appraisal study, its funding requirements
  are nonreimbursable. Reclamation can cost share up to 50 percent of the cost of
  a feasibility study with the nonfederal sponsor supplying the balance.
  Environmental compliance costs are considered to be part of the planning costs
  and are cost shared accordingly. If the project proceeds to construction, the
  Federal share of planning becomes part of the total project cost. Reclamation
  may furnish up to 25 percent of the total project cost up to a maximum of $20
  million per project. The balance of the construction cost must be furnished by
  the nonfederal sponsor. The entire O&M cost for the project must be borne by
  the nonfederal sponsor. Ownership of the completed facilities is with the
  sponsor.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  There are no time restrictions placed on the use of the funds and the funds have
  generally been made available periodically throughout the year on a
  reimbursable basis. A schedule is planned between Reclamation and the
  recipient when the cost share agreement is arranged. However, this schedule can
  be impacted by funds availability during the year.
Reports:
  Reporting requirements are as prescribed by 43 CFR 12, Subparts C and F, as
  applicable.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of
  States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations," nonfederal entities
  that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have
  a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities
  that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal
  audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  The required records will be specified as part of the audit procedure discussed
  above.
Account Identification:
  14-0680-0-1-301.
Obligations:
