  FY 07 $10,100,000; FY 08 est $9,780,000; FY 09 est $9,780,000.                   
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                         
  Construction funding is limited to 25 percent of the total project cost or $20   
  million per project, which ever is less.                                         
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                           
  The Arsenic Wellhead Demonstration Project in Albuquerque, NM has been           
  completed, and the Mission Basin Brackish Groundwater Desalting                  
  Demonstration Project in Oceanside, CA should be completed in 2006.              
  Construction projects in El Paso, TX, and San Diego, San Gabriel, Watsonville    
  and San Jose, CA, and Albuquerque, NM are progressing. The Long Beach (CA)       
  Desalination Research and Development Project is in the pilot development        
  stage. The comprehensive studies for Southern California and the San Francisco   
  Bay area have been completed. Feasibility studies in Phoenix and Tucson, AZ,     
  Santa Fe, NM, Pasadena and Desert Hot Springs, CA, and Austin and                
  Williamson County TX, are underway. In addition, four new construction           
  projects in southern California were initiated in 2000. They are the North San   
  Diego County Area Water Recycling Project, the Orange County Regional Water      
  Reclamation Project (Phase 1), the Calleguas Municipal Water District            
  Recycling Project, and the Long Beach Area Water Reclamation and Reuse           
  Project.                                                                         
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                           
  Brochure containing guidelines for nonfederal sponsors to participate in         
  program. No charge.                                                              
Regional or Local Office:                                                          
  Regional Director, Bureau of Reclamation. For addresses, see Appendix IV of      
  the Catalog.                                                                     
Headquarters Office:                                                               
  Office of the Commissioner, Bureau of Reclamation, P.O. Box 25007, D-5000,       
  Denver Federal Center, Denver, CO 80225. Contact: Richard A. Martin.             
  Telephone: (303) 445-3710. E-mail: rmartin@do.usbr.gov.                          
Web Site Address:                                                                  
  http://www.usbr.gov/pmts/writing/guidelines/.                                    
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                  
  None.                                                                            
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                       
  San Diego Area Water Reclamation Program, CA; San Gabriel Basin Project,         
  CA; Los Angeles Area Water Reclamation and Reuse Project, CA; San Jose           
  Area Water Reclamation and Reuse Program, CA; Watsonville Area Water             
  Recycling Project, CA; Tooele Wastewater Treatment and Reuse Project, UT;        
  Southern Nevada Water Recycling Project, NV; City of North Las Vegas Water       
  Reuse Project, NV; Phoenix Metropolitan Water Reclamation and Reuse Project,     
  AZ; Albuquerque Metropolitan Area Water Reclamation and Reuse Project,           
  NM; and Northwest El Paso Water Reclamation and Reuse Project, TX.               
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                  
  Reclamation will place priority on funding projects that are economically        
  justified and environmentally acceptable in a watershed context, not eligible for
  funding under another Federal program, and that directly address Administration  
  priorities for the Reclamation program, such as providing instream flows for     
  Federally endangered or threatened species, meeting the needs of Native          
  American communities, and meeting international commitments.                     
                                                                                   
15.506 WATER DESALINATION RESEARCH AND                                             
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM                                                                
                                                                                   
   (Desal R&D Program)                                                             
                                                                                   
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                    
  BUREAU OF RECLAMATION, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR                                
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                     
  Water Desalination Act of 1996, Public Law 104-298, 42 U.S.C. 10301.             
OBJECTIVES:                                                                        
  The Water Desalination Act of 1996 is based on the fundamental need in the       
  United States and world-wide for additional sources of high quality water.       
  Therefore, the primary objective of the program is to develop more cost-         
  effective, technologically efficient, and implementable methods by which usable  
  water can be produced from saline water or water otherwise impaired or           
  contaminated. The two principal parts of the program are: (1) perform research   
  on desalination technologies and related issues to advance the state of the art  
  forward (research and studies), and (2) conduct development and demonstration    
  activities to test technological advancements, confirm economics, and gain       
  public acceptance (development projects).                                        
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                               
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                         
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                         
  To be used to support research and studies, demonstration and development        
  projects and related activities, as described in the Act.                        
Applicant Eligibility:                                                             
  Any responsible source, to include individuals, State and local entities, public 
  nonprofit institutions/organizations, other public institutions/organizations,   
  Federally recognized Indian Tribal Governments, small businesses, profit         


                                                                              11-08
  organizations, private nonprofit institutions/organizations, quasi-public
  nonprofit institutions/organizations, and other private institutions/organizations
  may submit a proposal which will be considered by Reclamation. Foreign
  entities, other than United States-Mexico binational research foundations and
  inter-university research programs established by the two countries, are not
  eligible for funding under the Act. Federal agencies are not eligible to apply.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Individuals, State and local entities, public nonprofit institutions/organizations,
  other public institutions/organizations, Federally recognized Indian Tribal
  Governments, small businesses, profit organizations, private nonprofit
  institutions/organizations, quasi-public nonprofit institutions/organizations,
  other private institutions/organizations, and United States-Mexico binational
  research foundations and inter-university research programs established by the
  two countries.
Credentials/Documentation:
  (1) A detailed written technical proposal including the current status of the
  technology supporting the proposed research, technical approach proposed to
  accomplish the work, a scope of work which separates the work into major tasks,
  applicability to local and/or national water problems, type of personnel
  participating in the research, type and location of facilities and equipment that
  will be utilized by the project applicant, experience in this type of research, the
  environmental impact of the research, an estimate of the costs and/or cost
  savings ($/1000 gal) and economic benefit of the technology, and other
  information that may be useful for proposal evaluation. (2) A detailed project
  cost proposal including a budget covering salaries and wages, fringe benefits,
  travel, equipment, supplies, subcontracts, indirect cost rates, funding sources
  and commitments, cost-sharing, and a breakdown of costs by task.
Preapplication Coordination:
  On an annual basis, a pre-proposal solicitation announcement is issued by
  Reclamation. Submission of a pre-proposal is not mandatory; however, offerors
  are strongly encouraged to do so in order to receive the benefit of the initial pre-
  proposal screening process and thereby eliminate the possibility of submitting a
  full proposal that would not be considered for award. The pre-proposal
  application limits the description of a proposed project to six pages. The project
  description must address each of the following areas: (1) Description of the
  project objective(s). (2) Description of the approach to be taken to meet the
  project objectives. (3) Description of the relevance of the project to the Program
  objectives and specific research Task area. (4) Estimate of the costs and/or cost
  savings ($/1000 gal) and economic benefits of the technology. (5) Anticipated
  funding partners, if any. Applicants must submit an SF-424 with their pre-
  proposal. Questions regarding the pre-proposal process should be directed to the
  Grants and Cooperative Agreements Officer identified in the pre-proposal
  solicitation package. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372,
  "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult
  the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or her State
  for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying
  for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  A full proposal solicitation package is issued annually by Reclamation. There
  will be a general solicitation and one for pilot plants or a demonstration project
  in FY02. Submission of full technical and cost proposals in accordance with the
  instructions stated in the solicitation document is mandatory. Additionally,
  applicants must submit all applicable SF-424 forms and a DI-2010 form which
  will be included in the solicitation document.
Award Procedure:
  The number of awards, maximum funding amount per award, and areas of
  interest for which proposals will be considered, are determined on an annual
  basis and are dependent upon the annual appropriation from Congress.
  Proposals received in response to the annual solicitation are reviewed on the
  basis of a competitive, merit- review process, and are rated in accordance with
  evaluation criteria stated in the solicitation document. Reclamation will make
  awards for the highest rated proposals based on the amount of funding available
  each year. Reclamation reserves the right to make awards to maintain balance
  among the program objectives listed in the solicitation document.
Deadlines:
  Contact Reclamation for solicitation and proposal dates and deadlines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Contact Reclamation for the range of time when proposals are approved or
  disapproved.
Appeals:
  Not applicable. Reclamation will, however, provide all applicants with
  information on why their proposals were not selected.
Renewals:
  Continuation of funding for the Program from one fiscal year to the next is at the
  discretion of the Congress. Yearly solicitation is made for projects of 12 months
  duration or less (follow-on funding may be available for additional research
  studies, pilot-plant projects, or demonstration projects). No-cost extensions to
  awarded agreements are provided for unique projects that can justify additional
  time beyond the 12-month duration.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
                                                                                    445
