  The Federal share of the cost of a project or activity carried out under this Act   
  shall not exceed 50 percent of the total cost of the project or activity. A Federal 
  contribution in excess of 25 percent for a project carried out under this Act may   
  not be made unless the Secretary of the Interior determines that the project is not 
  feasible without such increased Federal contribution. Costs of operation,           
  maintenance, repair, and rehabilitation of facilities funded under the authority of 
  this Act shall be nonfederal responsibilities. In each fiscal year, up to           
  $1,000,000 may be awarded to institutions of higher education, including United     
  States-Mexico binational research foundations and interuniversity research          
  programs established by the two countries, for research grants or cooperative       
  agreements without any cost-sharing requirement.                                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

  Solicitation is made for projects of 12 months duration or less (follow-on

                                                                                      
  funding may be available for additional research studies, pilot-plant projects, or

  demonstration projects). No-cost extensions to awarded agreements are               
  provided for unique projects that can justify additional time beyond the 12-

  month duration.                                                                     
Reports:                                                                              
  The Recipient shall furnish quarterly reports and a final report as a permanent     
  record of the work accomplished under the agreement. A midterm project              
  review shall be held at the Recipient's site approximately 3 to 6 months after      
  project award. Approximately at the time of delivery of the draft final report, the 
  Project Manager shall make a presentation in Denver on the overall progress of      
  the project.                                                                        
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of             
  States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations," nonfederal entities        
  that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have    
  a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities   
  that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal     
  audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.            
Records:                                                                              
  The Recipient shall maintain project records in accordance with the applicable      
  OMB Circular regulations.                                                           
Account Identification:                                                               
  14-0680-0-1-301.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  FY 07 $30,000; FY 08 est $2,275,000; and FY 09 est $1,075,000.                      
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  $20,000 to $150,000; $85,000.                                                       
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  None.                                                                               
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Contact Reclamation for a copy of the solicitation document.                        
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Technical/Program Information: Bureau of Reclamation, Water Treatment               
  Engineering and Research Group, Attn: Kevin Price, Mail Code: D-8230, P.O.          
  Box 25007, Denver Federal Center, Denver, CO 80225. Telephone: (303) 445-           
  2260. Fax: (303) 445-6329. E-mail: kprice@do.usbr.gov. Solicitation                 
  documents: Bureau of Reclamation, Acquisitions Operations Group, Attn:              
  Randy Jackson, Mail Code: D-7810, P.O. Box 25007, Denver Federal Center,            
  Denver, CO 80225. Telephone: (303) 445-2432. Fax: (303) 445-6345. E-mail:           
  rjackson@do.usbr.gov.                                                               
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.usbr.gov/water/desal.html.                                               
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Examples of ongoing agreements awarded in FY 01 are: Development of                 
  membranes and membrane holding device for direct contact membrane                   
  distillation; Predicting membrane flux decline using parameters derived from        
  field flow fractionation measurements; Determination of impact of magnetic          
  fields on reverse osmosis separation; Study of two-phase technique for removal      
  of biofilm and other foulants from spiral wound reverse osmosis membranes;          
  Optimization at pilot plant level of membrane bioreactor systems for water          
  reclamation; and Pilot study of membrane pretreatment (ultrafiltration and          
  microfiltration) for seawater reverse osmosis desalination. In FY 02 Congress       
  instructed Reclamation to develop a desalination technology progress plan and a     
  Tulerosa Basin Desalination R & D Feasibility Study in partnership with Sandia      
  National Laboratories.                                                              
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Evaluation factors may include, but are not limited to the following: Technical     
  Factors: (1) Demonstrated familiarity with the current technology in the field of   
  work and understanding of the potential difficulties in carrying out the work. (2)  
  Impact of the proposed work on the current technology and on its related            
  economics if a completely successful outcome were achieved. (3) Novelty of          
  approach to the work. (4) Probability of a successful outcome of work. (5)          
  Availability of equipment, instruments, and test facilities required for the work.  


446                                                                             11-08

  Managerial Factors: (1) The qualifications, capabilities, and experience of the
  proposed project manager and other key personnel who are critical to
  achievement of the proposed objectives. (2) Adequacy, completeness and
  realism of the research schedule, task phasing, and milestones. (3) The offeror's
  capabilities, related experience, facilities, techniques, or unique combinations of
  these which are integral factors for achieving the proposed objectives. Pricing
  Factors: (1) Cost realism and reasonableness. This requires that costs be
  directly relatable to items in the research work plan, reasonable, and be
  appropriate to the project in terms of dollar amount and quantity. (2) Cost-
  share. Offerors proposing to provide the most cost-share shall be given greater
  consideration.
15.507 WATER 2025
   (Water 2025 Challenge Grant Program)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  BUREAU OF RECLAMATION, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act, 2006, Title II, Section 205,
  Public Law 109-103.
OBJECTIVES:
  To prevent crises and conflict over water in the western United States. The
  Challenge Grant Program is designed to contribute to this goal by providing 50
  percent funding for projects that will conserve water, increase water use
  efficiency, or enhance water management, using advanced technology,
  improvements to existing facilities, and water banks and markets.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  To be used for projects that will result in water conservation, more efficient
  water use, or better management of existing water supplies, which can be
  completed within 24 months from the date of award. Types of eligible projects
  include: (1) use of water banks and water markets; (2) modernization of existing
  facilities using new technology; (3) canal lining; (4) installation of measuring
  devices; and (5) the development of analytical tools to better manage water
  resources. Financial assistance under this program is limited to 50% of the total
  project cost, and generally may not exceed $300,000 per project. Congress may
  also authorize the Secretary to enter into grants or cooperative agreements with
  universities or non-profit institutions to fund water use efficiency research.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Irrigation and/or water districts, state governmental entities with water
  management authority (e.g., state agencies, departments, boards, etc), and other
  entities with water delivery authority, located in the states identified in the
  Reclamation Act of June 17, 1902, as amended, specifically, Arizona,
  California, Colorado, Idaho, Kansas, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Mexico,
  North Dakota, Oklahoma, Oregon, South Dakota, Texas, Utah, Washington, and
  Wyoming; universities and non-profit research institutions.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  The general public,, irrigation or water districts, and state governmental entities
  with water management authority, located in the states identified in the Act of
  June 17, 1902.
Credentials/Documentation:
  (1) A detailed written technical proposal including background data regarding
  the applicant, such as location, total project diversions, and relevant water use
  efficiency measurements, a detailed scope of work separating the work into
  major tasks, including any engineering or design work already completed, and
  describing the conservation measures and/or water banking activities to be
  undertaken, how the amount of saved water will be estimated, the level of
  cooperation with other parties involved in the proposal, and how the proposal
  will reduce conflict over water resources. (2) When applicable, a funding plan
  showing how the applicant will pay for its 50 percent cost share requirement,
  and an official resolution adopted by the irrigation or water district's governing
  board of directors, resolving that, if selected, it will negotiate and execute a grant
  or cooperative agreement with Reclamation. (3) A detailed project cost proposal,
  including a budget with the annual estimated project costs, including salaries
  and wages, fringe benefits, travel, equipment, supplies, contracts, and indirect
  costs, an estimate of annual operation and maintenance costs, and the value of
  in-kind contributions of goods and services.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  A request for proposals (RFP) is posted annually by Reclamation at Grants.gov.
  Submission of a complete technical proposal and a project budget proposal in
  accordance with the instructions in the RFP is mandatory. In addition,
  applicants must submit all applicable SF-424 forms, which are referenced in the
  RFP.
Award Procedure:
  The number of awards, maximum funding amount per award, and areas of
  interest for which proposals will be considered, are determined on an annual
