  basis and are dependent upon the annual appropriation from Congress.               
  Proposals received in response to the RFP are reviewed on the basis of a           
  competitive, merit-based review process, and are rated in accordance with the      
  evaluation criteria stated in the RFP. Reclamation will make awards to the         
  highest rated proposals based on the amount of funding available each year.        
  Reclamation reserves the right to prioritize projects based on availability of     
  funds and to ensure balance among the program objectives listed in the RFP.        
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Visit the Department of the Interior Water 2025 website,                           
  http://www.doi.gov/water2025/, for current information on any upcoming RFP         
  dates and deadlines, or contact Reclamation.                                       
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Contact Reclamation for the range of time when proposals are approved or           
  disapproved.                                                                       
Appeals:                                                                             
  Not applicable. Reclamation will, however, provide all applicants with             
  information on why their proposals were not selected.                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  Continuation of funding for the Program from one fiscal year to the next is at the 
  discretion of Congress. Yearly solicitation is made for projects of 24 months in   
  duration or less, although multi-year projects may be considered if annual         
  accomplishments can be demonstrated.                                               
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  The Federal share of the cost of a project or activity carried out under the

  Program shall not exceed 50 percent of the total cost of the project or activity.

  Costs of operation, maintenance, repair and rehabilitation of facilities funded

                                                                                     
  under the authority for this Program shall be nonfederal responsibilities. When    
  funding is available to universities and nonprofit institutions for research       
  projects, the 50% cost share may not be applicable.

Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Proposals are requested for projects of 24 months in duration or less. However,    
  funding for multi-year projects may be considered if annual accomplishments        
  can be demonstrated.                                                               
Reports:                                                                             
  The recipient must furnish quarterly and final financial reports; quarterly, annual
  and final performance reports; and significant development reports as needed.      
Audits:                                                                              
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,         
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"         
  nonfederal entities that expend $500,000 or more a year in Federal awards will     
  have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal      
  entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from   
  Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in OMB Circular A-       
  133.                                                                               
Records:                                                                             
  The recipient shall maintain project records in accordance with applicable OMB     
  Circular requirements.                                                             
Account Identification:                                                              
  14-1968-0-1-301.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $9,200,000; FY 08 est $11,000,000; and FY           
  09 est $14,475,000.                                                                
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  Challenge Grant Program ranges from $19,338 to $300,000; averages $140,331.        
  Water Efficiency Research averages $1,000,000.                                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  None.                                                                              
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  43 CFR 12, http://www.access.gpo.gov/nara/cfr/cfr-table-search.html#page1;         
  OMB Circulars, http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/grants/grants_circulars.html;         
  Standard Forms, http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/grants/grants_forms.html;            
  Program information, http://www.doi.gov/water2025/. Documents may also be          
  obtained by contacting Reclamation.                                                
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Technical/Program Information: Bureau of Reclamation, Office of Program and

                                                                                     
  Policy Services, Attn: Avra Morgan, Mail Code: D-5500, P.O. Box 25007,

                                                                                     
  Denver Federal Center, Denver, CO 80225. Telephone: (303) 445-2906. Fax:

                                                                                     
  (720) 544-4207. E-mail: aomorgan@do.usbr.gov. Solicitation documents:

                                                                                     
  Available through Grants.gov at www.grants.gov .

                                                                                     
Web Site Address:

                                                                                     
  http://www.doi.gov/water2025/ .

                                                                                     
RELATED PROGRAMS:

  15.506, Water Desalination Research and Development Program.                       
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  A total of 68 Water 2025 Challenge Grant projects have been funded to date,        
  including 43 projects by irrigation and water districts and other local entities,  
  and 6 more by western states. The funded projects include, among others, 28        
  projects that will save water by eliminating evaporation and seepage by            
                                                                                     


                                                                                11-08
  converting a total of 74 miles of dirt canals to pipeline and lining a total of 8.6
  miles of dirt canals; 46 projects that will improve the efficiency and control of
  water deliveries by installing water measurement and SCADA devices, and
  automating delivery systems; and 10 projects that involve marketing water to
  other water users in conformance with state laws. Short descriptions of each
  project funded under Water 2025 are available at
  http://www.doi.gov/water2025/grant.html.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Evaluation factors may include, but are not limited to the following: (1)
  inclusion of water banking or marketing elements; (2) amount of water
  conserved as a percent of normal supplies; (3) reasonableness of the costs for the
  benefits gained ; (4) the degree to which conserved water contributes toward an
  established or new water market or bank; (5) documentation of the projected
  results (i.e. identified the number of acre-feet to be managed, conserved or
  marketed), and tracking of the post-project results; (6) consistency with
  applicable water plan(s); (7) ability to pay for project cost and any increase in
  operation and maintenance costs; (8) costs are reasonable and appropriate for
  work proposed (including consideration of the percentage of the proposal used
  for capital improvements); (9) whether more than 50% non-federal funding was
  proposed; and (10) the relevance to Water 2025, including, the degree of
  stakeholder involvement and likeliness of reducing conflict, whether the project
  is in a hot spot, and whether the project is "in a basin with connections to
  Reclamation project activities."
15.508 PROVIDING WATER TO AT-RISK NATURAL
DESERT TERMINAL LAKES
   (Desert Terminal Lakes)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  BUREAU OF RECLAMATION, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002, Sec. 2507, Public Law 107-
  171; Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act, 2003, Title II, Sec.
  207, Public Law 108-7 (to implement the Truckee River Settlement Act, Public
  Law 101-618); and Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act, 2004,
  Title II, Sec. 217, Public Law 108-137; and Public Law 109-103, Energy and
  Water Development Appropriations Act, 2006, Title II, Sec. 208.
OBJECTIVES:
  Under this authority, Reclamation will fund various activities that will provide
  water to at-risk natural desert terminal lakes or fund earmarked activities.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funding is directed to be used to provide water only to Walker Lake, Pyramid
  Lake, and Summit Lake in the State of Nevada. Funding is earmarked in
  legislation for other specific projects. Reclamation is restricted from using the
  funds to purchase or lease water rights, unless specifically directed otherwise.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State and local public agencies, Indian tribes, nonprofit organizations, and
  individuals may submit a proposal which will be considered by Reclamation.
  Foreign entities and Federal agencies are not eligible to apply.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  State and local entities, public nonprofit institutions/organizations, other public
  institutions/organizations, Federally recognized Indian Tribal Governments,
  individuals, small businesses, profit organizations, private organizations, quasi-
  public nonprofit organizations, other private institutions/organization, general
  public, native American organizations, farmers/ranchers/agriculture producers,
  and land/property owners.
Credentials/Documentation:
  (1) A detailed written technical proposal including background data regarding
  the applicant, technical approach proposed to accomplish the work, a scope of
  work that separates the work into major tasks, type of personnel implementing
  the proposal, experience in performing this type of work, benefits to be received
  by implementation of the project(s), environmental impact(s), an estimate of the
  amount of water that will reach the impacted desert terminal lake as a result of
  accomplishing the work, how that amount of water was estimated, timeline(s),
  the level of cooperation with other parties involved in the proposal, and other
  information that may be useful for proposal evaluation. (2) A detailed cost
  proposal by project including a budget covering labor categories, salaries and
  wages with estimated hours, fringe benefits, travel, equipment, supplies,
  subcontracts, indirect cost rates, other funding sources and commitments, cost-
  sharing, value of in-kind contributions of goods and services, and a narrative
  discussion.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Funding is allowed for work that will provide water to three specified desert
  terminal lakes in Nevada. An Environmental Impact Statement or
  Environmental Assessment may be required depending on the nature of the
  proposal and its impact on the environment. Summit and Walker Lakes
  Preapplication Coordination: Although it is not mandatory, Reclamation
                                                                                    447
