  strongly encourages offerors to submit a pre-proposal to eliminate the possibility  
  of submitting a full proposal that would not be considered for award. The pre-      
  proposal should describe 1) how the proposal will provide water to the terminal     
  lake, 2) the quantity of water anticipated to be provided, 3) the associated        
  estimated cost, 4) potential environmental impacts, 5) state, local and other       
  permits or approvals needed to implement the proposal. Pyramid Lake                 
  Preapplication Coordination: On a periodic basis, a pre-proposal solicitation       
  announcement is issued by Reclamation; the initial solicitation occurred in         
  FY05. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372. No                   
  additional solicitation is planned in FY06.                                         
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Funding is allowed for work that will provide water to three specified desert       
  terminal lakes in Nevada. For Summit Lake, Reclamation will only accept             
  proposals from the Summit Lake Paiute Tribe, since the lake is entirely within      
  the reservation boundaries and any proposal affecting the lake would need the       
  consent of the Tribe. For Walker Lake, Reclamation will accept applications         
  after the applicant provides enough preapplication information to Reclamation       
  to assure that the proposed work will provide water to Walker Lake, the             
  associated cost is reasonable, and it is likely Reclamation can satisfy its federal 
  Indian trust, endangered species, environmental, and other responsibilities. For    
  Pyramid Lake, a Request for Proposals (RFP) is issued periodically by               
  Reclamation. Discretionary funding opportunities will be posted on Grants.gov.      
  Submission of a complete technical proposal and a project budget proposal in        
  accordance with the instructions in the RFP is mandatory. In addition,              
  applicants must submit all applicable SF424 forms, which are referenced in the      
  RFP.                                                                                
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  For Summit Lake and Walker Lake, proposals are evaluated using a merit-based        
  review process. For Pyramid Lake, proposals received in response to the RFP         
  are reviewed on the basis of a competitive, merit-based review process, and are     
  rated in accordance with the evaluation criteria stated in the RFP. Reclamation     
  will make awards to the highest rated proposals based on the amount of funding      
  available each solicitation period. Reclamation reserves the right to prioritize    
  projects based on availability of funds and to ensure balance among the program     
  objectives listed in the RFP.                                                       
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Contact Reclamation for solicitation and proposal dates and deadlines.              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Contact Reclamation for the range of time when proposals are approved or

  disapproved.                                                                        
Appeals:                                                                              
  None. Reclamation will, however, provide all applicants with information on

  why their proposals were not selected.                                              
Renewals:                                                                             
  Funding is available until all funds have been expended for this program.           
  Additional funding for the program is at the discretion of Congress. Any request    
  for a time extension must be in writing in accordance with the provisions stated    
  in the agreement. On March 2, 2006, the Commissioner of Reclamation                 
  proposed to Congress that $88 million of unobligated Desert Terminal Lakes          
  Program funding be used for a budget rescission; until this is resolved by          
  Congress, no funds will be available beyond those now being processed or that       
  have been previously legislatively earmarked.                                       
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements. Applicants          
  are encouraged to cost share with other funding partners when possible.             
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  There is no time restriction placed on the use of the funds. A schedule will be     
  established between Reclamation and the recipient at the time of award. Any         
  request for a time extension must be in writing in accordance with the provisions   
  stated in the agreement.                                                            
Reports:                                                                              
  The recipient must furnish quarterly and final financial reports; quarterly, annual 
  and final performance reports; and significant development reports as needed.       
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,          
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit organizations,"          
  nonfederal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in Federal awards        
  will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.             
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are     
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in OMB        
  Circular A-133.                                                                     
Records:                                                                              
  The recipient shall maintain project records in accordance with applicable OMB      
  Circular regulations.                                                               
Account Identification:                                                               
  14-0680-0-1-301.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Grants and Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $7,000,000; FY 08 est.                    
  $75,000,000; and FY 09 est. $20,000,000.                                            
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            


448                                                                             11-08

  Will be provided in the RFP issued and future updates.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  During FY04, 4 of 8 earmarked proposals were awarded in the amount of
  $1,633,000.00 and two (2) other projects in the amount of $2,396,811.00.
  During FY05, 2 earmarked proposals were awarded in the amount of $1.5
  million. During FY06 it is anticipated that $95 million of earmarked funding
  will be awarded, along with two other projects in the amount of $1.5 million. It
  is estimated that proposals will be issued in subsequent fiscal years until the
  funding is expended. The number of awards will be based on the funding
  requested in the proposal and based on the merit to the program.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  43 CFR 12, http://www.access.gpo.gov/nara/cfr/cfr-table-search.html#page1;
  OMB Circulars, http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/grants/grants_circulars.html;
  Standard Forms, http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/grants/grants_forms.html.
  Documents may also be obtained by contacting Reclamation.
Regional or Local Office:
  Technical/Program Information - contact Bureau of Reclamation, Lahontan
  Basin Area Office, Attention: Carol Grenier, 705 North Plaza Street, Room 320,
  Carson City, Nevada 89701-4015. Telephone: (775) 882-3436. Fax (775) 882-
  7592. Email cgrenier@mp.usbr.gov. Acquisition Office - contact Bureau of
  Reclamation, Mid-Pacific Regional Office, Acquisition Services, 2800 Cottage
  Way, Room E-1815, Sacramento, California 95825-1898. Telephone: (916)
  978-5130. Fax (916) 978-5175/5182. Email 2WG3@mp.usbr.gov.
Headquarters Office:
  None.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.usbr.gov/mp/lbao/desert_terminal/index.html
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Infrastructure improvement at a state wildlife management area that will
  improve water management and consequently allow conserved water to flow to a
  terminal lake. Infrastructure design and analysis at a geothermal plant to
  determine whether their current discharge could be transferred to a terminal lake
  instead of being allowed to evaporate. River restoration with an associated
  water right transfer. Increased use of recirculated water at a tribal fish hatchery.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  None.
15.509 COLORADO RIVER BASIN SALINITY CONTROL
PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  BUREAU OF RECLAMATION, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Colorado River Basin Salinity Control Act, Public Law 93-320, 59 Stat. 1219,
  as amended; Section 2, Public Law 98-569; Section 1, Public Law 104-20; Title
  III, Subtitle D, Chapter 4, Public Law 104-127, 110 Stat. 1006; Public Law 106-
  459, 114 Stat. 1987; 43 U.S.C. 1571 and 43 U.S.C. 1592(c).
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide financial and technical assistance to: (1) identify salt source areas;
  (2) develop project plans to carry out conservation practices to reduce salt loads;
  (3) install conversation practices to reduce salinity levels; (4) carry out research,
  education, and demonstration activities; (5) carry out monitoring and
  devaluation activities; and (6) to decrease salt concentration and salt loading
  which causes increased salinity levels within the Colorado River and to enhance
  the supply and quality of water available for use in the United States and the
  Republic of Mexico. Such programs shall consist of cost-effective measures and
  associated works to reduce salinity from saline springs, leaking wells, irrigation
  sources, industrial sources, erosion of public and private land, or other sources.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Eligible owners or operators in approved project areas may receive assistance to
  treat salinity problems.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Federal, Interstate, Intrastate, State, Local, Sponsored organizations, Public
  nonprofit institution/organizations, Federally Recognized Indian Tribal
  Government, Individual/Family, Minority Group, Specialized Group, Small
  Business, Profit Organization, Other private institution/organization, general
  public, and Native American Organizations.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Any person in the Colorado River Basin will benefit who uses or reuses water
  for irrigation, domestic, municipal or industrial water supply, or for fish and
  wildlife habitat.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Some projects may require compliance with the National Environmental Policy
  Act and Endangered Species Act. Information regarding whether these
  requirements must be met will be included in the funding opportunity
  announcement posted on www.grants.gov.
