  CFR Part 79, the curation of museum property. The amount of funding               
  available for projects is highly variable from year to year. Projects are approved
  through the budget cycle and may require up to three years for funding approval.  
Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  State and local agencies, sponsored organizations, public nonprofit               
  institutions/organizations, other public institutions/organizations, Federally-   
  recognized Indian Tribal governments, minority groups, specialized groups,        
  small businesses, profit organizations, private nonprofit                         
  institutions/organizations, quasi-public nonprofit institutions/organizations,    
  other private institutions/organizations, and Native American Organizations,      
  educational or scientific organization, or any institution, corporation,          
  association, or individual that possesses the requisite professional requirements.
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                            
  State and local governments, Tribes, universities, general public, entities that  
  have an education mission or mission-component, and repositories that meet the    
  standards of the Department of the Interior, Department Manual, Part 411:         
  Managing Museum Property, Chapters 1, 2, and 3, for facilities managing           
  Federal museum property. Further information regarding the general purpose        
  and scope of the Department Manual (DM) is included in Part 001, Chapter 1, of    
  the DM. The DM may be accessed at                                                 
  http://elips.doi.gov/app_DM/index.cfm?fuseaction=home.                            
Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  Repositories must meet the standards for managing museum property at 411 DM       
  Chapters 1 through 3; and repositories holding archeological collections must     
  also meet the standards for "Curation of Federally-owned and Administered         
  Archeological Collections" included in the Code of Federal Regulations at Title   
  36, Part 79, available at http://www.access.gpo.gov/nara/cfr/cfr-table-           
  search.html#page1. Activities under the Archaeological and Historic               
  Preservation Act must be conducted by educational or scientific organizations,    
  or any institution, corporation, association, or qualified individual.            
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                    
Application Procedure:                                                              
  Funding opportunity announcements for this program, along with registration       
  procedures, application packages and instructions, SF-424 forms and any other     
  forms to be used to submit application information, points of contact, and        
  procedures for submitting applications will be available on www.grants.gov .      
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  All applications will be initially screened by Bureau of Reclamation personnel    
  for eligibility and compliance with the requirements stated in the program        
  funding announcement. Applications passing this screening process will be         
  forwarded for review by the issuing office. Qualified experts from the Bureau of  
  Reclamation will review applications against the proposal evaluation criteria,    
  and any additional review factors, as stated in the funding announcement. Final   
  selection will be determined by the Commissioner, Bureau of Reclamation, or       
  regional officials, as applicable to the project.                                 
Deadlines:                                                                          
  Varies by project. Deadline information will be included in all funding           
  opportunity announcements posted on www.grants.gov.                               
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  Varies depending on the number of proposals received and the complexity of the    
  project. Generally, offices review and award assistance agreements within 60      
  days of proposal submission.                                                      
Appeals:                                                                            
  None. Final award decisions are not subject to appeal; however, the Bureau of

  Reclamation will provide all applicants with information on why their proposals   
  were not selected for award.                                                      
Renewals:

  Some projects may be eligible for extension. If renewals or extensions are        
  applicable to the project, this information will be included in the funding

  opportunity announcement. When renewals or extensions are applicable,             
  continuation of funding for these activities is at the discretion of Congress and 
  will be subject to availability of appropriated funds.                            
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  None.                                                                             
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  Agreements are typically awarded for periods of 1 to 5 years.                     
Reports:                                                                            
  Unless otherwise stated in the agreement document, recipients shall submit the    
  following reports on a quarterly basis: (1) SF-269/SF-269a Financial Status       
  Reports, (2) SF-272 Report of Federal Cash Transactions, and (3) Program          
  performance reports. Annually, recipients shall submit an annual program          
  performance report. Upon completion of the agreement, recipients shall submit     
  a final: (1) SF-269/SF-269a Financial Status Report, (2) final program            
  performance report, and (3) other specific reports that may be applicable to the  
  agreement such as property inventories, and patent and invention disclosures.     
Audits:                                                                             
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June        
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"    
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance ($500,000 for fiscal years   


                                                                               11-08
  ending after December 1, 2003) or more a year in Federal awards will have a
  single or a program specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities
  that expend less than ($500,000 for fiscal years ending after December 1, 2003)
  a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that
  year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Records, accounts, and supporting documents must be retained for 3 years after
  final request of reimbursement. For museum property, records must be in
  accordance with the specifications of 36 CFR Part 79 and 411 DM 1 through 3.
Account Identification:
  14-0680-0-1-301.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $899,669; FY 08 est not separately identifiable; and FY 09 est $289,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Heritage education agreements: one annually in the amount of $15,000.
  Curation agreements: Range $5,000 - $190,000. Agreements under the
  Archaeological and Historic Preservation Act: Range $25,000 - $250,000.
  Average approximately $50,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Heritage education grants have been awarded since 1993. Numerous assistance
  agreements have been awarded to state and governmental entities, and
  universities for the curation of museum property. Assistance agreements have
  been awarded to universities for activities associated with the Archaeological
  and Historic Preservation Act.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Reclamation's cultural resources management program is governed by 36 CFR
  Part 800; 43 CFR Part 7; Department of the Interior Manual Chapter 411,
  Chapters 1 through 3; and Reclamation Policy and Directives & Standards for
  Cultural Resources Management and Museum Property Management available
  at http://www.access.gpo.gov/nara/cfr/cfr-table-search.html - page1/. 43 CFR
  12 and 18, http://www.access.gpo.gov/nara/cfr/cfr-table-search.html - page1/;
  OMB Circulars, http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/grants/grants_circulars.html/.
  These documents may also be obtained by contacting the Reclamation Office
  listed below.
Regional or Local Office:
  Please see listing of contacts at www.usbr.gov/cultural/crmstaff.html/ .
Headquarters Office:
  Thomas Lincoln, Federal Preservation Officer, Bureau of Reclamation, P.O. Box
  25007 (Mail Code: 84-53000), Denver, Colorado 80225-0007.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.usbr.gov/cultural/ and http://www.usbr.gov/museumproperty/.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Cooperative agreements with entities to provide long-term curation of
  Reclamation-owned museum property, and grants to provide heritage education
  to the public including lesson plans to be used in promoting heritage education
  on Indian tribal schools and development of web sites to Reclamation's
  contribution to archaeology site preservation and protection.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Criteria used for selecting a recipient are based on a balanced and informed
  review of a technical proposal, budget proposal, and relevancy to program
  objectives. The specific evaluation criteria for each project will be included in
  the funding announcement posted on www.grants.gov/.
15.512 CENTRAL VALLEY PROJECT IMPROVEMENT
ACT, TITLE XXXIV
   (CVPIA)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  BUREAU OF RECLAMATION, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Reclamation Projects Authorization and Adjustment Act of 1992, Title XXXIV,
  Central Valley Project Improvement Act, Public Law 102-575.
OBJECTIVES:
  The purposes of the CVPIA are (1) to protect, restore, and enhance fish, wildlife,
  and associated habitats in the Central Valley and Trinity River basins of
  California, (2) to address impacts of the Central Valley Project on fish, wildlife,
  and associated habitats, (3) to improve the operational flexibility of the Central
  Valley Project, (4) to increase water-related benefits provided by the Central
  Valley Project to the State of California through expanded use of voluntary water
  transfers and improved water conservation, (5) to contribute to the State of
  California's interim and long-term efforts to protect the San Francisco
  Bay/Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta Estuary, and (6) to achieve a reasonable
  balance among competing demands for use of Central Valley Project water,
  including the requirements of fish and wildlife, agricultural, municipal and
  industrial and power contractors.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
                                                                                   451
