USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Agreements will be awarded for projects that will result in attaining the           
  objectives noted above and the mandates set out in the CVPIA. Areas of              
  emphasis include fish and wildlife restoration activities and investigations,       
  evaluation of ecologic and hydrologic effects of existing and alternative           
  operations of water facilities and systems, and the effects of the CVP on           
  anadromous fish populations. The Secretary of the Interior is authorized and        
  directed to promulgate such regulations and enter into such agreements as may       
  be necessary to implement the intent, purposes and provisions of Title XXXIV.       
  This title does not and shall not be interpreted to authorize construction of water 
  storage facilities.                                                                 
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Irrigation and/or water districts; state, local, and county governmental entities   
  with water management authority (e.g., State and Federal agencies, departments,     
  boards, etc.); and other entities with water delivery authority as well as private  
  nonprofit or profit organizations, and individuals located in the State of          
  California.                                                                         
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  General public, government agencies, and water management authorities located       
  in the State of California.                                                         
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  None.                                                                               
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, Intergovernmental           
  Review of Federal Programs. An applicant should consult the office or official      
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information  
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the 
  State has selected the program for review.                                          
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Funding opportunity announcements for this program, along with registration         
  procedures, application packages and instructions, SF-424 forms and any other       
  forms to be used to submit application information, points of contact, and          
  procedures for submitting applications will be available on www.grants.gov.         
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  All applications will be initially screened for eligibility and compliance with the 
  requirements stated in the program funding announcement. Applications               
  passing this screening process will be forwarded for review by a proposal           
  evaluation panel comprised of qualified Federal experts in the program area.        
  Applications will be reviewed against the proposal evaluation criteria, and any     
  additional review factors, as stated in the funding announcement. Final             
  selection will be determined by the Commissioner, Bureau of Reclamation, or         
  regional officials, as applicable to the project.                                   
Deadlines:                                                                            
  For current information on any upcoming funding opportunity announcement            
  dates and deadlines, contact the Mid-Pacific Region, MP-400 Division of             
  Resources Management, Sacramento, California, as listed in the Contacts             
  section below.                                                                      
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Varies depending on the type and complexity of the project. Further information     
  will be available for each specific project at the time the funding opportunity     
  announcement is posted on www.grants.gov and may be obtained by contacting          
  the Reclamation personnel listed as the point of contact in the funding             
  announcement.                                                                       
Appeals:                                                                              
  None. Final award decisions are not subject to appeal; however, the Bureau of       
  Reclamation will provide all applicants with information on why their proposals     
  were not selected for award.                                                        
Renewals:

  Continuation of funding for the Program from one fiscal year to the next is at the  
  discretion of Congress. Yearly solicitation is made for projects of 24 months in

                                                                                      
  duration or less, although multi-year projects may be considered if annual

  accomplishments can be demonstrated.                                                
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  The Federal share of the costs of a project or activity carried out under this      
  Program varies in accordance with the provisions of the CVPIA. Cost-share           
  requirements will be included in the funding opportunity announcement posted        
  on www.Grants.gov.                                                                  
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Proposals are requested for projects of 24 months in duration or less; however,     
  funding for multi-year projects may be considered if annual accomplishments         
  can be demonstrated.                                                                
Reports:                                                                              
  Unless otherwise stated in the agreement document, recipients shall submit the      
  following reports on a quarterly basis: (1) SF-269/SF-269a Financial Status         
  Reports, (2) SF-272 Report of Federal Cash Transactions, and (3) Program            
  performance reports. Annually, recipients shall submit an annual program            
  performance report. Upon completion of the agreement, recipients shall submit       
  a final: (1) SF-269/SF-269a Financial Status Report, (2) final program              
  performance report, and (3) other specific reports that may be applicable to the    
  agreement such as property inventories, and patent and invention disclosures.       


452                                                                             11-08

Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance ($500,000 for fiscal years
  ending after December 1, 2003) or more a year in Federal awards will have a
  single or a program specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities
  that expend less than ($500,000 for fiscal years ending after December 1, 2003)
  a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that
  year, Except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  State, local and Indian Tribal governments shall maintain project records in
  accordance with 43 CFR 12.82. All other recipients shall maintain project
  records in accordance with 43 CFR 12.953.
Account Identification:
  14-5173-0-2-301.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $5,500,000; FY 08 not separately identifiable; and FY 09 est
  $18,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $5,000 to $2,400,000; average $307,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Programmatically, the number of awards has been based on the level of funding
  received and the need to solicit for proposals. For FY 2004 to present, the
  Habitat Restoration Program (Section 3406 (b)(1) Other has provided
  approximately 80 percent to 85 percent of its yearly budget toward project grants
  (grants and cooperative agreements). The Anadromous Fish Screen Program
  Section 3406 (b)(21) has awarded funds toward cooperative agreements sharing
  the costs associated with the activities but not to exceed 50 percent of the total
  cost of any such activity (Total fish screen obligations for FY 1992 to date are
  about $92,400,000). Other programs may provide funding for grants and/or
  cooperative agreements based on project needs,types of projects to be
  implemented, interested parties, and funding.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  43 CFR 12, http://www.access.gpo.gov/nara/cfr/cfr-table-search.html#page1;
  OMB Circulars, http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/grants/grants_circulars.html .
  Program information,
  http://www.usbr.gov/mp/cvpia/title_34/public_law_complete.html . These
  documents may also be obtained by contacting the Reclamation Office listed
  below.
Regional or Local Office:
  Frank Michny, Acting Assistant Regional Director, MP 115, (916) 978-5010
  Micheal Heaton, Acting Chief Division of Resources Management, MP-400,
  (916) 978-5556. Shana Kaplan, CVPIA Program Manager, MP 400, (916) 978-
  5190.
Headquarters Office:
  None.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.usbr.gov/mp/.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Anadromous fish habitat restoration, implementation of the Trinity River fishery
  restoration program, fish screen improvements, canal lining, conveyance of
  water to wildlife refuges, and watershed monitoring, operation and maintenance.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Specific evaluation criteria will be included in the funding announcements
  posted on www.grants.gov.
15.513 DUTCH JOHN FEDERAL PROPERTY AND
DISPOSITION ASSISTANCE ACT
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  BUREAU OF RECLAMATION, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Dutch John Federal Property Disposition and Assistance Act of 1998, Public
  Law 105-326, 16 U.S.C. 460v.
OBJECTIVES:
  To privatize certain lands in and surrounding Dutch John, Utah; to transfer
  jurisdiction to certain Federal property Between the Secretary of Agriculture and
  the Secretary of the Interior; to improve the Flaming Gorge National Recreation
  Area; to dispose of certain residential units, public buildings, and facilities; to
  provide interim financial assistance to local government to defray the cost of
  providing basic governmental services; to achieve efficiencies in operation of
  the Flaming Gorge Dam and Reservoir and the Flaming Gorge National
  Recreation Area; to reduce long-term Federal outlays; and to serve the interests
  of the residents of Dutch John and Daggett County, Utah, and the general public.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  For the purpose of defraying costs of transition in administration and provision
