  of basic community services, an annual payment of $300,000 (as adjusted by the    
  Secretary for changes in the Consumer Price Index for all-urban consumers         
  published by the Department of Labor) shall be provided from the Upper            
  Colorado River Basin Fund to Daggett County, Utah, for a period not to exceed     
  15 years. At the present time, no new project awards are being made under this    
  authority and none are anticipated. Funding is only available for continuation of 
  the existing grant with Daggett County.                                           
Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  The residents in and around Daggett County, Utah.                                 
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                            
  The residents in and around Daggett County, Utah.                                 
Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  None.                                                                             
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O.12372.                           
Application Procedure:                                                              
  None.                                                                             
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  At the present time, program funding is limited to providing additional annual    
  funding to the existing project agreement with Daggett County. The Bureau of      
  Reclamation will transfer on an annual basis the sum of $300,000 to Daggett       
  County, Utah, (as adjusted by the Secretary for changes in the Consumer Price     
  Index for all-urban consumers published by the Department of Labor) by a

  amendment to the existing agreement.

Deadlines:

                                                                                    
  Not Applicable.                                                                   
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  Not Applicable.

Appeals:                                                                            
  Not Applicable.                                                                   
Renewals:                                                                           
  Not Applicable.                                                                   
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  None.

                                                                                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

                                                                                    
  Grant funding is for a total of 15 years.

                                                                                    
Reports:

  Unless otherwise stated in the agreement document, recipients shall submit the    
  following reports on a quarterly basis: (1) SF-269/SF-269a Financial Status       
                                                                                    
  Reports, (2) SF-272 Report of Federal Cash Transactions, and (3) Program

                                                                                    
  performance reports. Annually, recipients shall submit an annual program

                                                                                    
  performance report. Upon completion of the agreement, recipients shall submit a

                                                                                    
  final: (1) SF-269/SF-269a Financial Status Report, (2) final program

                                                                                    
  performance report, and (3) other specific reports that may be applicable to the

                                                                                    
  agreement such as property inventories, and patent and invention disclosures.

                                                                                    
Audits:

                                                                                    
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June

                                                                                    
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"

                                                                                    
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance ($500,000 for fiscal years

                                                                                    
  ending after Dec.1, 2003) or more a year in Federal awards will have a single or

                                                                                    
  a program specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend

                                                                                    
  less than ($500,000 for fiscal years ending after Dec.1, 2003) a year in Federal

                                                                                    
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted

                                                                                    
  in Circular No. A-133.

                                                                                    
Records:

  Records, accounts, and supporting documents must be retained for 3 years after    
  submission for final request of reimbursement. State, local and Indian Tribal     
                                                                                    
  governments shall maintain project records in accordance with 43 CFR 12.82.

                                                                                    
  All other recipients shall maintain project records in accordance with 43 CFR

                                                                                    
  12.953.

                                                                                    
Account Identification:

  14-4081-0-3-301.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  FY 07 $367,763; FY 08 est $376,000; and FY 09 est $400,000.                       
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  The range is from $345,668 to $373,874 with an average of $359,679.               
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  A years worth of funding was provided to assist in turning the facilities over to 
  Dutch John. Increased funding was provided in fiscal year 2006 to provide         
  assistance for repairs of the sewer treatment facility. This funding was used to  
  restore the sewer treatment facility that was partly discontinued from use by the 
  Burerau of Reclamation. As of March, 2000, twenty residential properties and      
  two commercial parcels have been sold, nine additional residential properties,    
  the State of Utah storage yard has been transferred without cost. During April    
  2000, 1810 acres surrounding the developed area were transferred to Daggett       
  County. The school properties have been transferred to the Daggett County         
  School District. Daggett County is maintaining all vacant grounds and roads and   
  operating the Fire Department and conference hall.                                
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  43 CFR 12, http://www.access.gpo.gov/nara/cfr/cfr-table-search.html#page1;        
  OMB Circulars, http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/grants/grants_circulars.html.        


                                                                              11-08 
  These documents may also be obtained by contacting the Bureau of Reclamation
  Office listed below.
Regional or Local Office:
  Mr. Steve Hulet, Acting Manager, Telephone: (435) 885-3238, Fax: (435)885-
  3224, E-mail: Shulet@uc.usbr.gov.
Headquarters Office:
  None.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.usbr.gov/uc/news/dutchjohnfacts.html.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  During April 2000, 1810 acres surrounding the developed area were transferred
  to Daggett County. As of December 1, 1999, Bridger Valley Electric
  Association took over the operation and maintenance of the electrical system. A
  three acre parcel of land which was sold has a new commercial building under
  construction and should be doing limited business by April 17, 2000. Daggett
  County is maintaining all vacant grounds and roads and Operating the Fire
  Department and conference hall.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  No proposals are issued. Funding is transferred annually to Daggett County,
  Utah, in accordance with Section 13 of the Act.
15.514 RECLAMATION STATES EMERGENCY DROUGHT
RELIEF
   (Emergency Drought Relief and Drought Contingency Planning)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  BUREAU OF RECLAMATION, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Reclamation States Emergency Drought Relief Act of 1991, Title II, Public Law
  102-250, 43 U.S.C. Section 2201-2214, as amended; Hawaii Water Resources
  Act of 2000, Title II, Public Law 106-566.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide planning assistance that would minimize and mitigate losses and
  damages resulting from drought conditions.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements); Provision of Specialized Services;
  Advisory Services and Counseling.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  In consultation with other appropriate Federal and State officials, Indian tribes,
  public, private, and local entities, Reclamation may prepare, or participate in the
  preparation of, plans for the prevention or mitigation of drought impacts.
  Financial assistance for the development of drought contingency plans may be
  provided in the form of cooperative agreements to States, Indian tribes, public,
  private, and local entities located within the 17 Reclamation States (Arizona,
  California, Colorado, Idaho, Kansas, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Mexico,
  North Dakota, Oklahoma, Oregon, South Dakota, Texas, Utah, Washington, and
  Wyoming) and Hawaii. Pursuant to Public Law 93-638, an Indian tribe is
  entitled to contract for any activities that Reclamation would otherwise conduct
  pursuant to Section 201 or 202 of Title II of the Act on the tribe's behalf which
  would benefit the tribe exclusively. Reclamation may provide technical
  assistance for drought contingency planning in any of the 50 U.S. States and
  territories and to local and tribal government entities.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State and local entities and Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments
  within the following 17 Western U.S. States: Arizona, California, Colorado,
  Idaho, Kansas, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Mexico, North Dakota,
  Oklahoma, Oregon, South Dakota, Texas, Wyoming, Utah, and Washington;
  and Hawaii. Technical assistance can also be requested for all 50 U.S. States
  and the following U.S. Territories: Puerto Rico, the Republic of the Marshall
  Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, the Trust Territory of the Pacific
  Island, and upon termination of the Trusteeship, the Republic of Palau, the
  United States Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam, and the Commonwealth
  of the Northern Mariana Islands.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  General public; Federal, State and local governments; and Federally Recognized
  Indian Tribal Governments within the 50 U.S. States and Territories.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs. An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Funding opportunity announcements for this program, along with registration
  procedures, application packages and instructions, SF-424 forms and any other
                                                                                    453
