  the Bureau of Reclamation personnel listed as the point of contact in the funding
  announcement.                                                                    
Appeals:                                                                           
  None. Final award decisions are not subject to appeal; however, the Bureau of    
  Reclamation will provide all applicants with information on why their proposals  
  were not selected for award.                                                     
Renewals:                                                                          
  Projects may generally be renewed on an annual basis, not to exceed a total of 5 
  years. If renewals or extensions are applicable to the project, this information 
  will be included in the funding opportunity announcement. When renewals or       
  extensions are applicable, continuation of funding for these activities is at the
  discretion of Congress and will be subject to availability of appropriated funds.
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                 
  None.                                                                            
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                             
  Agreements are typically awarded for one year, and may include up to four        
  annual renewals. Funding is restricted to the reimbursement method, but there is 
  no restriction on how frequently reimbursement may be requested.                 
Reports:                                                                           
  Unless otherwise stated in the agreement document, recipients shall submit the   
  following reports on a quarterly basis: (1) SF-269/SF-269a Financial Status      
  Reports, (2) SF-272 Report of Federal Cash Transactions, and (3) Program         
  performance reports. Annually, recipients shall submit an annual program         
  performance report. Upon completion of the agreement, recipients shall submit    
  a final: (1) SF-269/SF-269a Financial Status Report, (2) final program           
  performance report, and (3) other specific reports that may be applicable to the 
  agreement such as property inventories, and patent and invention disclosures.    
Audits:                                                                            
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June       
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"   
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance ($500,000 for fiscal years  
  ending after December 1, 2003) or more a year in Federal awards will have a      
  single or a program specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities  
  that expend less than ($500,000 for fiscal years ending after December 1, 2003)  
  a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that     
  year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.                                     
Records:                                                                           
  State, local and Indian Tribal governments shall maintain project records in     
  accordance with 43 CFR 12.82. All other recipients shall maintain project        
  records in accordance with 43 CFR 12.953.                                        
Account Identification:                                                            
  14-0680-0-1-301.                                                                 
Obligations:                                                                       
  FY 07 $628,843; FY 08 not separately identifiable; and FY 09 not separately      
  identifiable.                                                                    
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                         
  Range $5,276 - $800,000; Average $69,655.                                        
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                           
  Law enforcement activities at Bureau of Reclamation dams, reservoirs, water      
  projects, and associated buildings and grounds. Information is not currently     
  available on the number of future funding opportunity announcements.             
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                           
  43 CFR 12, http://www.access.gpo.gov/nara/cfr/cfr-table-search.html#page1;       
  OMB Circulars, http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/grants/grants_circulars.html.       
  These documents may also be obtained by contacting the Bureau of Reclamation     
  Office listed below.                                                             
Regional or Local Office:                                                          
  None.                                                                            
Headquarters Office:                                                               
  Mr. Vincent Parolisi, Chief of Law Enforcement, Telephone: (303) 445-3245.       
Web Site Address:                                                                  
  http://www.usbr.gov.                                                             
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                  
  None.                                                                            
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                       
  Law enforcement activities at Canyon Ferry Dam and Reservoir, Colorado Big       
  Thompson Facilities, Pueblo Dam, Brantley Reservoir, and Flaming Gorge Dam       
  and Related buildings and grounds.                                               
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                  
  Specific evaluation criteria will be included in the funding announcements       
  posted on www.grants.gov.                                                        
                                                                                   
15.516 FORT PECK RESERVATION RURAL WATER                                           
                                                                                   
SYSTEM                                                                             
   (Fort Peck Water Supply Project)                                                
                                                                                   
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                    
  BUREAU OF RECLAMATION, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR                                
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                     
                                                                                   
                                                                              11-08
  Fort Peck Reservation Rural Water System Act of 2000, Public Law 106-382.
OBJECTIVES:
  To ensure a safe and adequate municipal, rural, and industrial water supply for
  the residents of the Fort Peck Indian Reservation in the State of Montana; and to
  assist the citizens in those portions of Roosevelt, Sheridan, Daniels, and Valley
  Counties that are outside the Fort Peck Indian Reservation, in developing safe
  and adequate municipal, rural, and industrial water supplies.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The project is for the construction of municipal, rural, and industrial water
  supply systems that will serve the Fort Peck Indian Reservation (Assiniboine and
  Sioux Rural Water System), and all or portions of Valley, Daniels, Sheridan and
  Roosevelt counties in northeastern Montana (Dry Prairie Rural Water System).
  At the present time, no new project awards are being made under this authority.
  Funding is only available for continuation of existing agreements.
Applicant Eligibility:
  The Fort Peck Tribal Executive Board, Dry Prairie Rural Water Association
  Incorporated (or any successor non-Federal entity).
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  The Fort Peck Indian Reservation, the Dry Prairie Rural Water Association, and
  the residents of all or portions of Valley, Daniels, Sheridan and Roosevelt
  counties in the State of Montana.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  These projects have met the requirements of the National Environmental Policy
  Act (NEPA) of 1969, and final engineering reports and water conservation plans
  have been approved. Any proposed changes in the scope of these projects will
  be reviewed for continued compliance. This program is excluded from coverage
  under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Annual work plans and budgets are negotiated annually. The applicants must
  submit all applicable SF-424 Application for Federal Assistance forms, along
  with technical proposals and budget narratives.
Award Procedure:
  Once the parties agree with their respective annual scopes of work and budgets,
  Reclamation's Great Plains Region finalizes the amendments.
Deadlines:
  Not applicable.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Not applicable.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Funding is available until all currently appropriated funds have been expended
  for this program. Additional funding for the program is at the discretion of
  Congress. Any request for a time extension must be in writing and in
  accordance with the provisions stated in the agreement.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The Federal share of the Fort Peck project is 100 percent (Sec. 4(j)); the Federal
  share of the Dry Prairie Rural Water System project is 76 percent (Sec. 5(a)(2).
  Construction costs for both projects will total $193 million (1998 dollars) with
  Dry Prairie's cost being $68 million and the Reservation's portion being $125
  million. Funds are to be available until expended.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Funding for these projects was authorized to be appropriated over a period of 10
  fiscal years.
Reports:
  Draft and final technical reports; SF-269A (quarterly), financial reports
  (quarterly), progress reports (quarterly); annual report; reports on significant
  developments (as necessary).
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance ($500,000
  for fiscal years ending after December 1, 2003) or more a year in Federal awards
  will have a single or a program specific audit conducted for that year.
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than ($500,000 for fiscal years ending after
  December 1, 2003) a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit
  requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  State, local and Indian Tribal governments shall maintain project records in
  accordance with 43 CFR 12.82. All other recipients shall maintain project
  records in accordance with 43 CFR 12.953.
Account Identification:
  14-0680-0-1-301.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $5,000,000; FY 08 est $6,763,000, and FY 09 est $0.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Average $10,167,000.
                                                                                  455
