PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  Required technical and environmental reports for the construction of municipal,      
  rural, and industrial water supply systems; partial construction of the systems in   
  accordance with the final engineering report.                                        
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  Regulations: 43 CFR 12, http://www.access.gpo.gov/nara/cfr/cfr-table-                
  search.html#page1; OMB Circulars,                                                    
  http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/grants/grants_circulars.html. These documents          
  may also be obtained by contacting the Reclamation Office listed below.              
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  Montana Area Office: Mr. Dan Jewell, Area Manager, Bureau of Reclamation,            
  PO Box 30137, Billings, MT, 59107-0137, Telephone: 406.247.7298, E-mail:             
  djewell@gp.usbr.gov.                                                                 
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Great Plains Region Office: Mr. Kimball M. Banks, Tribal and Financial               
  Assistance Officer, Bureau of Reclamation, P.O. Box 36900, 316 North 26th            
  Street, Billings, MT 59101, Telephone: (406) 247-7710, Fax: (406) 247-7695,          
  E-mail: kbanks@gp.usbr.gov.                                                          
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.nemontel.net/~dprw/.                                                      
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  None.                                                                                
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  Construction of municipal, rural, and industrial water supply systems for the        
  Fort Peck Indian Reservation and for all or portions of Valley, Daniels, Sheridan,   
  and Roosevelt counties in northeastern Montana.                                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  The scopes of work must address and be responsive to the authorizing                 
  legislation, the final engineering report and the appropriation ceiling.             
                                                                                       
15.517 FISH AND WILDLIFE COORDINATION ACT                                              
                                                                                       
      (FWCA)                                                                           
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  BUREAU OF RECLAMATION, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR                                    
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act of 1934, Public Law 85-624, 16 U.S.C. 661         
  et seq., as amended; as limited by the Secretary of the Interior delegation of       
  authority at 255 DM 14.                                                              
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To provide financial assistance, through grants or cooperative agreements, to        
  public or private organizations for the improvement of fish and wildlife habitats    
  associated with water systems or water supplies affected by Bureau of                
  Reclamation projects.                                                                
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                             
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  In accordance with the delegation of authority to the Bureau of Reclamation in       
  the Department of the Interior Department Manual, Part 255, Chapter 14,              
  available at http://elips.doi.gov/app_DM/act_getfiles.cfm?relnum=3062,               
  projects are limited to the improvement of fish and wildlife habitat associated      
  with water systems or water supplies affected by Bureau of Reclamation               
  projects.                                                                            
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  State and local governments, nonprofit organizations and institutions, public and    
  private institutions and organizations, Federally recognized Indian Tribal           
  Governments, individuals, small businesses, for-profit organizations, and Native     
  American Organizations.                                                              
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Anyone/general public, governmental entities, Tribal governments, Native             
  American organizations, and/or public or private organizations in the specific       
  project area.                                                                        
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  None.                                                                                
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  None. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372,                        
  Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs. An applicant should consult the        
  office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for 
  more information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for    
  assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.                        
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Funding opportunity announcements for this program, along with registration          
  procedures, application packages and instructions, SF-424 forms and any other        
  forms to be used to submit application information, points of contact, and           
  procedures for submitting applications will be available on www.grants.gov.          
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  All applications will be initially screened for eligibility and compliance with the  
  requirements stated in the program funding announcement. Applications                
  passing this screening process will be forwarded for review by a proposal



456                                                                              11-08

  evaluation panel comprised of qualified experts in the program area.
  Applications will be reviewed against the proposal evaluation criteria, and any
  additional review factors, as stated in the funding announcement. Final
  selection will be determined by the Commissioner, Bureau of Reclamation, or
  regional officials, as applicable to the project.
Deadlines:
  Varies by project. Deadline information will be included in all funding
  opportunity announcements posted on www.grants.gov.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Varies depending on the type and complexity of the project. Further information
  will be available for each specific project at the time the funding opportunity
  announcement is posted on www.grants.gov and may be obtained by contacting
  the Reclamation personnel listed as the point of contact in the funding
  announcement.
Appeals:
  None. Final award decisions are not subject to appeal; however, the Bureau of
  Reclamation will provide all applicants with information on why their proposals
  were not selected for award.
Renewals:
  If renewals or extensions are applicable to the project, this information will be
  included in the funding opportunity announcement. When renewals or
  extensions are applicable, continuation of funding for these activities is at the
  discretion of Congress and will be subject to availability of appropriated funds.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Projects are generally awarded for 1 to 5 years.
Reports:
  Unless otherwise stated in the agreement document, recipients shall submit the
  following reports on a quarterly basis: (1) SF-269/SF-269a Financial Status
  Reports, (2) SF-272 Report of Federal Cash Transactions, and (3) program
  performance reports. Annually, recipients shall submit an annual program
  performance report. Upon completion of the agreement, recipients shall submit
  a final: (1) SF-269/SF-269a Financial Status Report, (2) final program
  performance report, and (3) other specific reports that may be applicable to the
  agreement such as property inventories, and patent and invention disclosures.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance ($500,000 for fiscal years
  ending after December 1, 2003) or more a year in Federal awards will have a
  single or a program specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities
  that expend less than ($500,000 for fiscal years ending after December 1, 2003)
  a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that
  year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  State, local and Indian Tribal governments shall maintain project records in
  accordance with 43 CFR 12.82. All other recipients shall maintain project
  records in accordance with 43 CFR 12.953.
Account Identification:
  14-0680-0-1-301.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $12,323,628; FY 08 not separately identifiable; and FY 09 not separately
  identifiable.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Range of $5,000 to $3,123,390.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Improvements to fish and wildlife habitat through award of projects that track
  fish and wildlife movement, habitat temperature monitoring, collection and
  analysis of intertebrates, genetics studies, surveying and monitoring of fish and
  wildlife and salinity studies.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  43 CFR 12, http://www.access.gpo.gov/nara/cfr/cfr-table-search.html#page1;
  OMB Circulars, http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/grants/grants_circulars.html;
  these documents may also be obtained by contacting the Bureau of Reclamation
  Office listed in the funding announcement.
Regional or Local Office:
  Specific contact information will be provided in each funding announcement.
Headquarters Office:
  None.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.usbr.gov/.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Wetland habitat research, study of riparian vegetation, habitat restoration.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Specific evaluation criteria will be included in the funding announcements
  posted on www.grants.gov.
