15.518 GARRISON DIVERSION UNIT                                                         
                                                                                       
   (Garrison Diversion Unit Project)                                                   
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  BUREAU OF RECLAMATION, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR                                    
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Garrison Diversion Unit, Missouri River Basin Project, Public Law 89-108, as         
  amended; Energy and Water Development Appropriation Act of 1985, Public              
  Law 98-360; Garrison Diversion Unit Reformulation Act of 1986, Public Law            
  99-294; Dakota Water Resources Act of 2000, Public Law 106-554.                      
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To meet the water needs within the State of North Dakota by providing funds on       
  a non-reimbursable basis for the planning and construction of a multi-purpose        
  water resource development project within the State of North Dakota for              
  irrigation; municipal, rural, and industrial water; fish, wildlife, and other natural
  resource conservation and development; recreation; flood control; augmented          
  stream flows; ground water recharge; and other project purposes.                     
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                             
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Different projects and programs under the authorization have different cost          
  ceilings. The Bureau of Reclamation's Great Plains Region shall enter into           
  cooperative agreements with the State of North Dakota, the Garrison                  
  Conservancy District, the Standing Rock Sioux, the Three Affiliated Tribes, the      
  Spirit Lake Nation, and the Turtle Mountain Band of Chippewa to undertake the        
  authorized activities, programs and projects as the Secretary of the Interior        
  determines necessary.                                                                
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  The State of North Dakota, the Garrison Conservancy District, the Standing           
  Rock Sioux, the Three Affiliated Tribes, the Spirit Lake Nation, and the Turtle      
  Mountain Band of Chippewa.                                                           
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  The citizens of the State of North Dakota and the Standing Rock Sioux, the           
  Three Affiliated Tribes, the Spirit Lake Nation, and the Turtle Mountain Band of     
  Chippewa.                                                                            
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  See Public Law 99-294, Section 2, for considerations to be given to fish and         
  wildlife conservation, including habitat impacts, mitigation procedures, and         
  enhancement. See Public Law 99-294, Section 3, regarding when it may be              
  necessary for applicants to complete a comprehensive report covering feasibility,    
  capability, impacts, cost and efficiency measures, National Environmental            
  Policy Act requirements, and other matters. Please contact the Bureau of             
  Reclamation personnel listed in the Contacts section, below, for further             
  information regarding these requirements.                                            
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  Preapplication is not required. Depending on the project, an environmental           
  impact assessment or statement may be required. This program is excluded from        
  coverage under E.O. 12372. If requested, the Bureau of Reclamation's Great           
  Plains Region will assist the State of North Dakota, the Garrison Conservancy        
  District, the Standing Rock Sioux, the Three Affiliated Tribes, the Spirit Lake      
  Nation, and the Turtle Mountain Band of Chippewa in preparing their respective       
  proposals.                                                                           
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Applications shall include: (1) Detailed written technical proposals including       
  background data regarding the applicants, technical approaches proposed to           
  accomplish the work, scopes of work that separate the work into major tasks,         
  types of personnel implementing the proposals, experience in performing these        
  types of work, timelines, the levels of cooperation with other parties involved in   
  the proposals, and other information that may be useful for proposal evaluation;     
  and (2) Detailed project cost proposals, including budgets with estimated project    
  costs, including salaries and wages, fringe benefits, travel, equipment, supplies,   
  contracts, and indirect costs, and the values of any in-kind contributions of        
  goods and services. Applicants must submit all applicable SF-424 Application         
  for Federal Assistance forms, along with their technical and budget proposals.       
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  Once the parties agree with their respective scopes of work and cooperative          
  agreements, the Bureau of Reclamation's Great Plains Region will finalize the        
  agreements. The Bureau of Reclamation's Great Plains Region will negotiate

  and enter into cooperative agreements with the State of North Dakota, the            
  Garrison Conservancy District, the Standing Rock Sioux, the Three Affiliated

  Tribes, the Spirit Lake Nation, and the Turtle Mountain Band of Chippewa. The

                                                                                       
  tribes may choose to enter into an agreement under Public Law 93-638, the            
  Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act. For those agreements

  that are in place, the Bureau of Reclamation negotiates annually the workplan        
  and budget for that fiscal year.                                                     
Deadlines:                                                                             
  Varies by project. Contact the Regional Office listed below for deadline dates.      
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  None.                                                                                


                                                                                  11-08
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Funding is available until all currently appropriated funds have been expended
  for this program. Additional funding for the program is at the discretion of
  Congress. Any request for a time extension must be in writing in accordance
  with the provisions stated in the agreement.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  There is no time restriction placed on the use of the funds. A schedule will be
  established between the Bureau of Reclamation and the recipient at the time of
  award. Any request for a time extension must be in writing in accordance with
  the provisions stated in the agreement.
Reports:
  Draft and final technical reports; SF-269A (quarterly), financial reports
  (quarterly), progress reports (quarterly); annual report; reports on significant
  developments (as necessary).
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance ($500,000 for fiscal years
  ending after December 1, 2003) or more a year in Federal awards will have a
  single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities
  that expend less than ($500,000 for fiscal years ending after December 1, 2003)
  a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that
  year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  State, local and Indian Tribal governments shall maintain project records in
  accordance with 43 CFR 12.82. All other recipients shall maintain project
  records in accordance with 43 CFR 12.953.
Account Identification:
  14-0680-0-1-301.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $24,221,000; FY 08 est $17,642,000; and FY 09 est $23,960,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Range - $2,000 to $1,427,500; Average - $320,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Technical and environmental reports required by the various activities, projects,
  and programs; construction of municipal, rural and industrial water supply
  systems; and enhancement of recreation facilities.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  43 CFR 12, http://www.access.gpo.gov/nara/cfr/cfr-table-search.html#page1;
  OMB Circulars, http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/grants/grants_circulars.html.
  These documents may also be obtained by contacting the Bureau of Reclamation
  Office listed below.
Regional or Local Office:
  Dakotas Area Office: Mr. Denny Breitzman, Area Manager, Bureau of
  Reclamation, Address: P.O. Box 1017, Bismarck, ND 58501, Telephone:
  (701) 250-4242, E-mail: dbreitzman@gp.usbr.gov.
Headquarters Office:
  Great Plains Region Office: Mr. Kimball M. Banks, Tribal and Financial
  Assistance Officer, Bureau of Reclamation, P.O. Box 36900, 316 North 26th
  Street, Billings, MT 59101, Telephone: (406) 247-7710, Fax: (406) 247-7695,
  E-mail: kbanks@gp.usbr.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.usbr.gov/gp/.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  The tribal municipal, rural and industrial water supply systems projects; the
  tribal operation and maintenance activities; the Red River Valley feasibility
  study and environmental assessment; the State of North Dakota municipal, rural
  and industrial water supply systems projects; the enhancement of Garrison
  recreation facilities.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The scopes of work must address and be responsive to the authorizing legislation
  and the appropriation ceiling, and any stated evaluation criteria.
15.519 INDIAN TRIBAL WATER RESOURCES
DEVELOPMENT, MANAGEMENT, AND PROTECTION
   (Indian Tribal Water Resources)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  BUREAU OF RECLAMATION, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Consolidated Appropriations Resolution, 2003, Division D Energy and Water
  Development Appropriations, Title II, Section 201, Public Law 108-7.
OBJECTIVES:
                                                                                  457
