  To increase opportunities for Indian tribes to develop, manage, and protect their   
  water resources.                                                                    
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                            
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Grants and cooperative agreements, pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 6301-6308, are             
  authorized to increase opportunities for Indian tribes to develop, manage, and      
  protect their water resources. Nothing in this Act is intended to modify or limit   
  the provisions of the Indian Self-Determination Act (25 U.S.C. 45 et seq.).         
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Federally recognized Indian tribes, institutions of higher education, national      
  Indian organizations, and tribal organizations located in the 17 western States     
  identified in the Act of June 17, 1902, as amended; specifically, Arizona,          
  California, Colorado, Idaho, Kansas, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Mexico,         
  North Dakota, Oklahoma, Oregon, South Dakota, Texas, Utah, Washington, and          
  Wyoming.                                                                            
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Federally recognized Indian tribes in the 17 western states.                        
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  None.                                                                               
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                      
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Funding opportunity announcements for this program, along with registration         
  procedures, application packages and instructions, SF-424 forms and any other       
  forms to be used to submit application information, points of contact, and          
  procedures for submitting applications will be available on www.grants.gov.         
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  All applications will be initially screened for eligibility and compliance with the 
  requirements stated in the program funding announcement. Applications               
  passing this screening process will be forwarded for review by a proposal           
  evaluation panel comprised of Bureau of Reclamation program managers who            
  are qualified experts in the program area. Applications will be reviewed against    
  the proposal evaluation criteria, and any additional review factors, as stated in   
  the funding announcement. Final selection will be determined by the                 
  Commissioner, Bureau of Reclamation, or regional officials, as applicable to the    
  project.                                                                            
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Varies by project. Deadline information will be included in all funding             
  opportunity announcements posted on www.grants.gov .

Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Varies depending on the type and complexity of the project. Further information

  will be available for each specific project at the time the funding opportunity     
  announcement is posted on www.grants.gov and may be obtained by contacting

  the Bureau of Reclamation personnel listed as the point of contact in the funding   
  announcement.                                                                       
Appeals:                                                                              
  None. Final award decisions are not subject to appeal; however, the Bureau of       
  Reclamation will provide all applicants with information on why their proposals     
  were not selected for award.                                                        
Renewals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  None.                                                                               
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Projects generally last one to two years.                                           
Reports:                                                                              
  Unless otherwise stated in the agreement document, recipients shall submit the      
  following reports on a quarterly basis: (1) SF-269/SF-269a Financial Status         
  Reports, (2) SF-272 Report of Federal Cash Transactions, and (3) program            
  performance reports. Annually, recipients shall submit an annual program            
  performance report. Upon completion of the agreement, recipients shall submit       
  a final: (1) SF-269/SF-269a Financial Status Report, (2) final program              
  performance report, and (3) other specific reports that may be applicable to the    
  agreement such as property inventories, and patent and invention disclosures.       
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June          
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"      
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance ($500,000 for fiscal years     
  ending after December 1, 2003) or more a year in Federal awards will have a         
  single or a program specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities     
  that expend less than ($500,000 for fiscal years ending after December1, 2003) a    
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,    
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.                                              
Records:                                                                              
  Indian Tribal governments and organizations shall maintain project records in       
  accordance with 43 CFR 12.82. Institutions of higher education shall maintain       
  project records in accordance with 43 CFR 12.953.                                   
Account Identification:                                                               
  14-0680-0-1-301.                                                                    


458                                                                             11-08

Obligations:
  FY 07 $3,829,061; FY 08 not separately identifiable; and FY 09 not separately
  identifiable.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Range $4,000 to $800,000, average $110,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Projects have been awarded for improvement of infrastructure, restoration of fish
  and wildlife, and habitat improvement. Information is not available on the
  number of projects that will be announced this year.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  43 CFR 12, http://www.access.gpo.gov/nara/cfr/cfr-table-search.html#page1;
  OMB Circulars, http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/grants/grants_circulars.html.
  These documents may also be obtained by contacting the Bureau of Reclamation
  Office listed below.
Regional or Local Office:
  Pacific Northwest Region: Telephone: (208) 378-5012, Web:
  http://www.usbr.gov/native/regions/pn/index.html; Mid-Pacific Region:
  Telephone: (916) 978-5000, Web:
  http://www.usbr.gov/native/regions/mp/index.html; Lower Colorado Region:
  Telephone: (702) 293-8411, Web:
  http://www.usbr.gov/native/regions/lc/index.html; Upper Colorado Region:
  Telephone: (801) 524-3600, Web:
  http://www.usbr.gov/native/regions/uc/index.html; Great Plains Region:
  Telephone: (406) 247-7600, Web:
  http://www.usbr.gov/native/regions/gp/index.html.
Headquarters Office:
  None.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.usbr.gov/native/.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Well closures, drought relief, water needs assessments, aquifer studies, water
  management database, infrastructure improvement, and water quality
  monitoring.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Proposed projects must be related to the development, management and
  protection of Indian tribal water resources. Specific evaluation criteria will be
  included in the funding announcements posted on www.grants.gov.
15.520 LEWIS AND CLARK RURAL WATER SYSTEM
   (Lewis and Clark Project)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  BUREAU OF RECLAMATION, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Fiscal Year 2000, Department of Defense Supplemental Appropriations Act,
  Division B, Chapter 3, Title IV, Lewis and Clark Rural Water System, Public
  Law 106-246.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide safe and adequate municipal, rural, and industrial water supplies,
  mitigation of wetland areas and water conservation for the Lewis and Clark
  Rural Water System member entities located in southeastern South Dakota,
  southwestern Minnesota, and northwestern Iowa.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  This project is for the planning and construction of a bulk water supply system
  to provide municipal, rural, and industrial water supplies, mitigation of wetland
  areas and water conservation for the Lewis and Clark Rural Water System
  member entities located in southeastern South Dakota, southwestern Minnesota
  member entities located in southeastern South Dakota, southwestern Minnesota,
  and northwestern Iowa. Congress has specifically authorized the Bureau of
  Reclamation to administer this project in southwestern Minnesota and
  northwestern Iowa. At the present time, no new project awards are being made
  under this authority. Funding is only available for continuation of existing
  agreements.
Applicant Eligibility:
  The Lewis and Clark Rural Water Supply System, Inc., and its member entities
  (rural water systems or municipalities that meet the Lewis and Clark Rural
  Water Supply System, Inc., requirements for membership).
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  The communities and five rural water systems in Lake, McCook, Minnehaha,
  Turner, Lincoln, Clay, and Union Counties, in southeastern South Dakota; Rock
  and Nobles Counties, in Southwestern Minnesota; and Lyon, Sioux, Osceola,
  O'Brien Dickinson, and Clay Counties, in northwestern Iowa.
Credentials/Documentation:
  The project requires submission of a final engineering report and a plan for
  water conservation and mitigation plans for fish and wildlife losses in
