  accordance with Section 4104 of the Act.                                            
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  Preapplication is not required. An environmental impact statement is required       
  for this program. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.          
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Amendments to incorporate annual work plans and budgets are negotiated              
  annually. The recipient must submit all applicable SF-424 Application for           
  Federal Assistance forms, along with (1) Detailed written technical proposals       
  including background data regarding the applicants, technical approaches

  proposed to accomplish the work, scopes of work that separate the work into         
  major tasks, types of personnel implementing the proposals, experience in

  performing these types of work, timelines, the levels of cooperation with other

                                                                                      
  parties involved in the proposals, and other information that may be useful for     
  proposal evaluation; and (2) Detailed project cost proposals, including budgets

  with estimated project costs, including salaries and wages, fringe benefits, travel,
  equipment, supplies, contracts, and indirect costs, and the values of any in-kind   
  contributions of goods and services.                                                
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Once the parties agree with their respective annual scopes of work and budgets,     
  the Bureau of Reclamation's Great Plains Region finalizes the amendments.           
Deadlines:                                                                            
  None.                                                                               
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  None.                                                                               
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  Funding is available until all currently appropriated funds have been expended      
  for this program. Additional funding for the program is at the discretion of        
  Congress. Any request for a time extension must be in writing in accordance         
  with the provisions stated in the agreement.                                        
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  The Federal share of the project is 80 percent; except that Federal funds for the   
  City of Sioux Falls, South Dakota, shall be 50 percent of the incremental cost to   
  the city of participation in the project. (Public Law 106-246, Section 4108).       
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  As of September 30, 2004, the federal appropriation ceiling as prepared by the      
  Bureau of Reclamation was $332,355,000 and the projected cost ceiling from all      
  funding sources was $423,198,000. Funds are to be available until expended.         
Reports:                                                                              
  Draft and final technical reports; SF-269A (quarterly), financial reports           
  (quarterly), progress reports (quarterly); annual report; reports on significant    
  developments (as necessary).                                                        
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June          
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"      
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance ($500,000 for fiscal years     
  ending after December 1, 2003) or more a year in Federal awards will have a         
  single or a program specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities     
  that expend less than ($500,000 for fiscal years ending after December 1, 2003)     
  a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that        
  year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.                                        
Records:                                                                              
  State, local and Indian Tribal governments shall maintain project records in        
  accordance with 43 CFR 12.82. All other recipients shall maintain project           
  records in accordance with 43 CFR 12.953.                                           
Account Identification:                                                               
  14-0680-0-1-301.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  FY 07 $21,000,000; FY 08 est $26,000,000; and FY 09 est $4,850,000.                 
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  Average $17,500,000.                                                                
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  Required technical and environmental reports for the construction of the            
  municipal, rural, and industrial systems; construction of the systems.              
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  43 CFR 12, http://www.access.gpo.gov/nara/cfr/cfr-table-search.html#page1;          
  OMB Circulars, http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/grants/grants_circulars.html;          
  these documents may also be obtained by contacting the Bureau of Reclamation        
  office listed below.                                                                
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Dakotas Area Office: Mr. Denny Breitzman, Area Manager, Bureau of                   
  Reclamation, Address: P.O. Box 1017, Bismarck, ND 58501, Telephone:                 
  (701) 250-4242, E-mail: dbreitzman@gp.usbr.gov .                                    
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Great Plains Region Office: Mr. Kimball M. Banks, Tribal and Financial              
  Assistance Officer, Bureau of Reclamation, P.O. Box 36900, 316 North 26th           
  Street, Billings, MT 59101, Telephone: (406) 247-7710, Fax: (406) 247-7695,         
  Email: kbanks@gp.usbr.gov.                                                          
Web Site Address:                                                                     


                                                                                 11-08
  http://www.lcrws.org/.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Continuing construction of the Lewis and Clark water supply system.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The scope of work must address and be responsive to the authorizing legislation,
  the final engineering report and the appropriation ceiling.
15.521 LOWER RIO GRANDE VALLEY WATER
RESOURCES CONSERVATION AND IMPROVEMENT
   (Lower Rio Grande Valley Irrigation Projects).
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  BUREAU OF RECLAMATION, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Lower Rio Grande Valley Water Resources Conservation and Improvement Act
  of 2000, Public Law 106-576, as amended; Lower Rio Grande Valley Water
  Resources Conservation and Improvement Act of 2002, Public Law 107-351.
OBJECTIVES:
  To investigate and identify opportunities to improve the supply of water in the
  program area identified as the counties in the State of Texas in the Rio Grande
  Regional Water Planning Area known as Region M.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Cost ceilings of $8,000,000 for conservation and improvements (section 3(g))
  and $47,000,000 for construction (section 4(c)). Reclamations Great Plains
  Region will enter into cooperative agreements with the State of Texas, water
  users in the program area, specified irrigation districts, and other non Federal
  entities to carry out the project if the Secretary of the Interior determines such
  agreements would be cost-effective and efficient. A substantial portion of this
  program is directed toward funding 19 construction projects specifically
  identified in the Lower Rio Grande Valley Water Resources Act, as amended.
Applicant Eligibility:
  The State of Texas, water users in the program area, specified irrigation districts,
  and other non-Federal entities.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  The general public located in the state of Texas.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372. An applicant should
  consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or
  her State for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in
  applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review,(2)
  Applicants shall provide a report in accordance with Section 3(c) of the Act that
  includes, but is not limited to, (a) estimated project costs, conservation
  measures, and operational efficiency improvements, (b) a project plan and map,
  and (c) a cost-sharing commitment for applicant funding of its proportional
  share of project construction costs on an annual basis.
Application Procedure:
  Funding opportunity announcements for this program, along with registration
  procedures, application packages and instructions, SF-424 forms and any other
  forms to be used to submit application information, points of contact, and
  procedures for submitting applications will be available on www.grants.gov.
Award Procedure:
  All applications will be initially screened for eligibility and compliance with the
  requirements stated in the program funding announcement. Applications
  passing this screening process will be forwarded for review by a proposal
  evaluation panel comprised of qualified experts in the program area.
  Applications will be reviewed against the proposal evaluation criteria, and any
  additional review factors, as stated in the funding announcement. Before
  providing funding for a project to the nonFederal project sponsor, the Secretary
  of the Interior shall determine that the nonFederal project sponsor is financially
  capable of funding the projects nonFederal share of the project costs. Final
  selection will be determined by the Commissioner, Bureau of Reclamation, or
  regional officials, as applicable to the project.
Deadlines:
  Varies by project. Deadline information will be included in all funding
  opportunity announcements posted on www.grants.gov.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Varies depending on the type and complexity of the project. Further information
  will be available for each specific project at the time the funding opportunity
  announcement is posted on www.grants.gov and may be obtained by contacting
  the Reclamation personnel listed as the point of contact in the funding
  announcement.
Appeals:
  None. Final award decisions are not subject to appeal; however, the Bureau of
                                                                                    459
