  Reclamation will provide all applicants with information on why their proposals   
  were not selected for award.                                                      
Renewals:                                                                           
  Funding is available until all currently appropriated funds have been expended    
  for this program. Additional funding for the program is at the discretion of      
  Congress. Any request for a time extension must be in writing in accordance       
  with the provisions stated in the agreement.                                      
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  The nonfederal share of total project costs shall be 50 percent. Not more than 40 
  percent of the project costs may be paid by the State. The remainder of the       
  nonFederal share may include in-kind contributions of goods and services, and     
  the actual funds previously spent on feasibility and engineering studies.         
  Awarded agreements must contain a commitment by the nonFederal project            
  sponsors to fund their proportionate share of the project's construction costs on 
  an annual basis. (Public Law 106- 576, Section 4(b), as amended).                 
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  There is no time restriction placed on the use of the funds. A schedule will be   
  established with the recipient at the time of award. Any request for a time       
  extension must be in writing in accordance with the provisions stated in the      
  agreement.                                                                        
Reports:                                                                            
  Draft and final technical reports; SF-269A (quarterly), financial reports         
  (quarterly), progress reports (quarterly); annual report; reports on significant  
  developments (as necessary).                                                      
Audits:                                                                             
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June        
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"    
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance ($500,000 for fiscal years   
  ending after December 1, 2003) or more a year in Federal awards will have a       
  single or a program specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities   
  that expend less than ($500,000 for fiscal years ending after December 1, 2003)   
  a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that      
  year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.                                      
Records:                                                                            
  State, local and Indian Tribal governments shall maintain project records in      
  accordance with 43 CFR 12.82. All other recipients shall maintain project         
  records in accordance with 43 CFR 12.953.                                         
Account Identification:                                                             
  14-0680-0-1-301.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  FY 07 $1,200,000; FY 08 est $2,519,000; and FY 09 est $50,000.                    
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  Average $1,460,000.                                                               
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  Reclamation has entered into several cooperative agreements with irrigation       
  districts in the project area for planning, design, and construction activities.  
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  43 CFR 12, http://www.access.gpo.gov/nara/cfr/cfr-table-search.html#page1;        
  OMB Circulars, http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/grants/grants_circulars.html;        
  these documents may also be obtained by contacting the Reclamation Office         
  listed below.                                                                     
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  Oklahoma Texas Area Office: Mr. Mark Trevino, Area Manager, Bureau of             
  Reclamation, Address: 5316 Highway 290 West, Suite 510, Austin, TX 78735-         
  8931, Telephone: (512) 899-4150, E-mail: mtrevino@gp.usbr.gov .                   
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Great Plains Region Office: Mr. Kimball M. Banks, Tribal and Financial            
  Assistance Officer, Bureau of Reclamation, P.O. Box 36900, 316 North 26th         
  Street, Billings MT 59101, Telephone: (406)247-7710, fax: (406)247-7695, E-       
  mail: kbanks@gp.usbr.gov.                                                         
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  http://www.usbr.gov/gp/.                                                          
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  None.                                                                             
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  Replacement of river pumping plant and construction of canal interconnect         
  system, main canal replacements, water conservation improvement project,          
  reservoir renovation telemetry and flow measurement projects, and lateral         
  rehabilitation.                                                                   
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                   
  The scopes of work must address and be responsive to the authorizing legislation  
  and the appropriation ceiling.                                                    
                                                                                    
15.522 MNI WICONI RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT                                        
                                                                                    
      (Mni Wiconi Project)                                                          
                                                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     
  BUREAU OF RECLAMATION, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR                                 
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                      


460                                                                           11-08

  Mni Wiconi Rural Project Act of 1988, Public Law 100-516, as amended;
  Yavapai-Prescott Indian Tribe Water Rights Settlement Act of 1994, Title VIII,
  Mni Wiconi Act Amendments of 1994, Public Law 103-434.
OBJECTIVES:
  To ensure a safe and adequate municipal, rural, and industrial water supply for
  the residents of the Pine Ridge Indian, Rosebud Indian, and Lower Brule Indian
  Reservations in South Dakota; to assist the citizens of Haakon, Jackson, Jones,
  Lyman, Mellette, Pennington, and Stanley Counties, South Dakota, to develop
  safe and adequate municipal, rural, and industrial water supplies; to promote the
  implementation of water conservation programs at these locations; to provide
  certain benefits to fish, wildlife, and the natural environment of South Dakota;
  and in consultation with the Oglala, Rosebud, and Lower Brule Sioux Tribes, to
  conduct feasibility studies on the need to develop water disposal facilities and
  systems and rehabilitate existing waste water disposal facilities and systems on
  the Pine Ridge, Rosebud, and Lower Brule Indian Reservations.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Agreements are limited to planning, designing, constructing, operating,
  maintaining, and replacing the Oglala Sioux, the Rosebud, and the Lower Brule
  Sioux Rural Water Supply Systems; and for planning and construction of the
  West River Rural Water System and the Lyman-Jones Rural Water System. At
  the present time, no new project awards are being made under this authority.
  Funding is only available for continuation of existing agreements.
Applicant Eligibility:
  West River/Lyman-Jones Water Systems and the Oglala, Rosebud, and Lower
  Brule Sioux tribes.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  The citizens of the southwest quarter of the State of South Dakota, including the
  Oglala, Rosebud, and Lower Brule Indian Reservations.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Cooperative agreements for construction of projects entered into for the Lyman-
  Jones Rural Water System must be in accordance with the final engineering
  reports submitted by each project applicant.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Preapplication is not required. Depending on the project, an environmental
  impact assessment or statement may be required. This program is excluded from
  coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  At the present time, program funding is limited to amendments of existing
  agreements. Amendments to incorporate annual work plans and budgets are
  negotiated annually.
Award Procedure:
  Once the parties agree with their respective annual scopes of work and budgets,
  the Bureau of Reclamation's Great Plains Region finalizes the modifications.
  Responsibilities for needs assessments, feasibility and environmental studies,
  design, conservation measures and administration are to be included in
  agreements negotiated under this authority.
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  None.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Funding is available until all currently appropriated funds have been expended
  for this program. Additional funding for the program is at the discretion of
  Congress. Any request for a time extension must be in writing in accordance
  with the provisions stated in the agreement.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The Federal share of tribal projects is 100 percent. The Federal share of the
  West River/Lyman Jones projects is 80 percent. (Public Law 103-434, Section
  805)
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  There is no time restriction placed on the use of the funds. A schedule will be
  established between the Bureau of Reclamation and the recipients at the time of
  award. Any request for a time extension must be in writing in accordance with
  the provisions stated in the agreement.
Reports:
  Draft and final technical reports; SF-269A (quarterly), financial reports
  (quarterly), progress reports (quarterly); annual report; reports on significant
  developments (as necessary).
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance ($500,000 for fiscal years
  ending after December 1, 2003) or more a year in Federal awards will have a
  single or a program specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities
  that expend less than ($500,000 for fiscal years ending after December 1, 2003)
  a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that
