  recreation access and assets. Concession contracts are not authorized by the        
  above authorities.                                                                  
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  State and local government entities that are willing to manage and maintain         
  publicly-owned recreation facilities and assets.                                    
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  General public.                                                                     
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Public Law 89-72 requires that State and local governments indicate their intent    
  in writing to agree to administer project land and water.                           
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, Intergovernmental           
  Review of Federal Programs. An applicant should consult the office or official      
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information  
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the 
  State has selected the program for review.                                          
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Funding opportunity announcements for this program, along with registration         
  procedures, application packages and instructions, SF-424 forms and any other       
  forms to be used to submit application information, points of contact, and          
  procedures for submitting applications will be available on www.grants.gov/.        
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  All applications will be initially screened by Bureau of Reclamation personnel      
  for eligibility and compliance with the requirements stated in the program          
  funding announcement. Applications are reviewed by the Bureau of                    
  Reclamation office having administrative jurisdiction of the land and water areas   
  being considered for public recreation purposes. Applications will be reviewed      
  against the proposal evaluation criteria, and any additional review factors, as     
  stated in the funding announcement. There are no other additional requirements      
  and the office having jurisdiction may issue a management agreement.                
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Varies by project. Deadline information will be included in all funding             
  opportunity announcements posted on www.grants.gov/.                                
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Varies depending on the type and complexity of the project. Further information     
  will be available for each specific project at the time the funding opportunity     
  announcement is posted on www.grants.gov/ and may be obtained by contacting         
  the Bureau of Reclamation personnel listed as the point of contact in the funding   
  announcement.                                                                       
Appeals:                                                                              
  None. Final award decisions are not subject to appeal; however, the Bureau of

  Reclamation will provide all applicants with information on why their proposals     
  were not selected for award.

                                                                                      
Renewals:

  If renewals or extensions are applicable to the project, this information will be   
  included in the funding opportunity announcement. Management agreements

  are renewable if both the Bureau of Reclamation and the State or local partner      
  are in mutual agreement. When renewals or extensions are applicable,                
  continuation of funding for these activities is at the discretion of Congress and   
  will be subject to availability of appropriated funds.                              
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Funding announcements will include information on cost sharing requirements         
  applicable to the specific project. In the case of recreation development, a        
  minimum cost share of 50 percent would be required from a nonFederal partner.       
  For fish and wildlife enhancement projects, the Federal share may be up to 75       
  percent of the project cost. (16 U.S.C. 460l-13(a)).                                
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Agreements are typically for one to five years depending on the type of project.    
Reports:                                                                              
  Unless otherwise stated in the agreement document, recipients shall submit the      
  following reports on a quarterly basis: (1) SF-269/SF-269a Financial Status         
  Reports, (2) SF-272 Report of Federal Cash Transactions, and (3) Program            
  performance reports. Annually, recipients shall submit an annual program            
  performance report. Upon completion of the agreement, recipients shall submit       
  a final: (1) SF-269/SF-269a Financial Status Report, (2) final program              
  performance report, and (3) other specific reports that may be applicable to the    
  agreement such as property inventories, and patent and invention disclosures.       
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June          
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"      
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance ($500,000 for fiscal years     
  ending after December 1, 2003) or more a year in Federal awards will have a         
  single or a program specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities     
  that expend less than ($500,000 for fiscal years ending after December 1, 2003)     
  a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that        
  year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.                                        
Records:                                                                              
  State, local and Indian Tribal governments shall maintain project records in        
  accordance with 43 CFR 12.82. All other recipients shall maintain project           
  records in accordance with 43 CFR 12.953.                                           


462                                                                             11-08

Account Identification:
  14-0680-0-1-301.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $3,232,789; FY 08 not separately identifiable; and FY 09 est $4,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Range $5,000 to $6,000,000 Average-$272,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Cost-sharing agreements have been awarded since 1965. Numerous agreements
  have been awarded to State and local governmental entities for the management
  of recreation resources. The funds awarded through cost-sharing agreements
  have for the most part gone to plan, develop, operate, and maintain recreation
  facilities on Bureau of Reclamation land and water.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  43 CFR 12, http://www.access.gpo.gov/nara/cfr/cfr-table-search.html#page1/;
  OMB Circulars, http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/grants/grants_circulars.html/;
  Program information is included in the Reclamation Manual, LND PO4,
  available at http://www.usbr.gov/recman/lnd/lnd-p04.pdf/. These documents
  may also be obtained by contacting the Bureau of Reclamation Office listed
  below.
Regional or Local Office:
  Pacific Northwest Region: (208) 378-5312; Mid-Pacific Region: (916) 978-
  5558; Lower Colorado Region: (702) 293-8375; Upper Colorado Region: (801)
  524-3765; Great Plains Region: (406) 247-7714.
Headquarters Office:
  Vernon Lovejoy, Bureau of Reclamation, P.O. Box 25007 (84-53000), Denver,
  Colorado 80225-0007. Telephone (303) 445-2913. Fax 303-445-6690. E-mail:
  vlovejoy@do.usbr.gov .
Web Site Address:
  http://www.usbr.gov/pmts/planning/ .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Management agreements with State and local governments providing for long-
  term management of public recreation resources at Horsetooth, Jordanelle,
  Cascade, Folsom, and Coachella Reservoirs; shoreline stabilization; Americans
  with Disabilities Act compliance projects; boat ramp replacement; and operation
  and maintenance of designated fish and wildlife areas and facilities.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Specific evaluation criteria will be included in the funding announcements
  posted on www.grants.gov/.
15.525 ROCKY BOY'S/NORTH CENTRAL MONTANA
REGIONAL WATER SYSTEM
   (North Central Montana Rural Water Supply Project)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  BUREAU OF RECLAMATION, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Indian Financing Amendments Act of 2002, Title IX; Rocky Boy's/North
  Central Montana Regional Water System Act of 2002, Public Law 107-331.
OBJECTIVES:
  To ensure a safe and adequate rural, municipal, and industrial water supply for
  the residents of the Rocky Boy's Reservation in the State of Montana, and to
  assist the citizens residing in Chouteau, Glacier, Hill, Liberty, Pondera, Teton,
  and Toole Counties, Montana, but outside the Reservation, in developing safe
  and adequate rural, municipal, and industrial water supplies.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Construction of a rural water supply system that will serve the Chippewa-Cree of
  the Rocky Boy's Indian reservation and the surrounding, off-reservation
  communities in north central Montana. At the present time, no new project
  awards are being made under this authority. Funding is only available for
  continuation of existing agreements.
Applicant Eligibility:
  The Chippewa-Cree of the Rocky Boy's Indian Reservation and the North
  Central Montana Regional Water Authority.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  The Chippewa-Cree of the Rocky Boy's Indian Reservation and inhabitants of
  the areas served by the North Central Montana Regional Water Authority in
  Chouteau, Glacier, Hill, Liberty, Pondera, Teton, and Toole Counties, Montana.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The Bureau of Reclamation Great Plains Region, will assist the Chippewa-Cree
  of the Rocky Boy's Indian Reservation and members of the North Central
  Montana Regional Water Authority, in preparing their respective annual funding
  agreements. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O.12372.
Application Procedure:
