  During the course of its activities under a grant agreement and for three years       
  thereafter, the applicant must agree to retain intact and to provide any data,        
  documents, reports, records, contracts, and supporting materials relating to its      
  performance under the agreement as FRA may require. State, Local and Indian           
  Tribal governments shall maintain project records in accordance with 43 CFR           
  12.82. All other recipients shall maintain project records in accordance with 43      
  CFR 12.953.                                                                           
Account Identification:                                                                 
  14-5483-0-2-301.                                                                      
Obligations:                                                                            
  FY 07 $753,313; FY 08 est $400,000; and FY 09 est $0.                                 
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                              
  Average $3,890,646.                                                                   
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                
  Five grant agreements have been executed to design, construct, operate, and           
  maintain facilities that will extract contaminated groundwater from the San           
  Gabriel Basin, treat it to potable standards, and use the water for potable           
  purposes. The projects will provide a safe source of potable water while              
  remediating groundwater contamination that has been designated as operable            
  units under the EPA superfund program.                                                
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                
  Regulations: 43 CFR 12, http://www.access.gpo.gov/nara/cfr/cfr-table-                 
  search.html#page1; OMB Circulars,                                                     
  http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/grants/grants_circulars.html. Program                   
  guidelines: Department of the Interior, Delegation of Authority for the San           
  Gabriel Basin Restoration Project, Order No. 3241, Amendment No. 4; San               
  Gabriel Basin Water Quality Authority, Federal Funding Program                        
  Administration guidelines, http://www.wqa.com/pdfs/FFPA3.pdf. These                   
  documents may also be obtained by contacting the Bureau of Reclamation                
  Office listed below.                                                                  
Regional or Local Office:                                                               
  Dennis Wolfe, Area Engineer, Southern California Area Office, Telephone:              
  (951) 695-5310; Fax: (951) 695-5319; E-mail: dwolfe@lc.usbr.gov.                      
Headquarters Office:                                                                    
  None.                                                                                 
Web Site Address:                                                                       
  http://www.usbr.gov/lc/socal/.                                                        
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                       
  15.504, Water Reclamation and Reuse Program.                                          
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                            
  San Gabriel Valley Groundwater Remediation, Central Basin Water Quality               
  Protection Plan.                                                                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                       
  Applicants are limited to the San Gabriel Basin Water Quality Authority or the        
  Central Basin Municipal Water District. Projects must improve the quality of          
  the groundwater in the San Gabriel Basin, located in Los Angeles County,              
  California. The scopes of work must address and be responsive to the                  
  authorizing legislation, the final engineering reports, and the appropriation         
  ceiling.                                                                              
                                                                                        
15.527 SAN LUIS UNIT, CENTRAL VALLEY PROJECT                                            
                                                                                        
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                         
  BUREAU OF RECLAMATION, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                                                                                        
AUTHORIZATION:

                                                                                        
  San Luis Unit, Central Valley Project Act of June 3, 1960, Public Law 86-488,

                                                                                        
  74 Stat. 156, Section 5.

                                                                                        
OBJECTIVES:

                                                                                        
  Construction and operation of drainage facilities designed to serve the general

                                                                                        
  area of which the lands to be served by the San Luis Unit are a part.

                                                                                        
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:

                                                                                        
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).

                                                                                        
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

                                                                                        
  To be used for projects that will result in construction and operation of drainage

                                                                                        
  facilities in the San Luis Unit and adjacent areas.

                                                                                        
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                  
  Any responsible source, to include irrigation and/or water districts, State and       
  local entities, public nonprofit institutions/organizations, other public             
  institutions/organizations, Federally recognized Indian Tribal Governments,           
  small businesses, profit organizations, private nonprofit                             
  institutions/organizations, quasi-public nonprofit institutions/organizations, and    
  other private institutions/organizations.                                             
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                
  General public, irrigation and/or water districts, State and local entities, farmers  
  and ranchers, agricultural producers, and property owners.

                                                                                        
Credentials/Documentation:                                                              
  None.                                                                                 
Preapplication Coordination:

                                                                                        
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.

                                                                                        
Application Procedure:

                                                                                        
  Funding opportunity announcements for this program, along with registration



464                                                                               11-08

  procedures, application packages and instructions, SF-424 forms and any other
  forms to be used to submit application information, points of contact, and
  procedures for submitting applications will be available on www.grants.gov/.
Award Procedure:
  All applications will be initially screened for eligibility and compliance with the
  requirements stated in the program funding announcement. Applications
  passing this screening process will be forwarded for review by a proposal
  evaluation panel comprised of qualified Federal experts in the program area;
  however, nonFederal experts may be utilized for specific project reviews.
  Applications will be reviewed against the proposal evaluation criteria, and any
  additional review factors, as stated in the funding announcement. Final
  selection will be determined by the Commissioner, Bureau of Reclamation, or
  regional officials, as applicable to the project.
Deadlines:
  Varies by project. Deadline information will be included in all funding
  opportunity announcements posted on www.grants.gov.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Varies depending on the type and complexity of the project. Further information
  will be available for each specific project at the time the funding opportunity
  announcement is posted on www.grants.gov and may be obtained by contacting
  the Bureau of Reclamation personnel listed as the point of contact in the funding
  announcement.
Appeals:
  None. Final award decisions are not subject to appeal; however, the Bureau of
  Reclamation will provide all applicants with information on why their proposals
  were not selected for award.
Renewals:
  If renewals or extensions are applicable to the project, this information will be
  included in the funding opportunity announcement. When renewals or
  extensions are applicable, continuation of funding for these activities is at the
  discretion of Congress and will be subject to availability of appropriated funds.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  There is no statutory requirement for cost sharing; however, applicants are
  encouraged to provide a cost share whenever possible.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Length and time phasing information, as applicable, will be included in funding
  announcements for this program on www.grants.gov/.
Reports:
  Unless otherwise stated in the agreement document, recipients shall submit the
  following reports on a quarterly basis: (1) SF-269/SF-269a Financial Status
  Reports, (2) SF-272 Report of Federal Cash Transactions, and (3) Program
  performance reports. Annually, recipients shall submit an annual program
  performance report. Upon completion of the agreement, recipients shall submit
  a final: (1) SF-269/SF-269a Financial Status Report, (2) final program
  performance report, and (3) other specific reports that may be applicable to the
  agreement such as property inventories, and patent and invention disclosures.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance ($500,000 for fiscal years
  ending after December 1, 2003)or more a year in Federal awards will have a
  single or a program specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities
  that expend less than ($500,000 for fiscal years ending after December 1, 2003)
  a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that
  year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  State, local and Indian Tribal governments shall maintain project records in
  accordance with 43 CFR 12.82. All other recipients shall maintain project
  records in accordance with 43 CFR 12.953.
Account Identification:
  14-0680-0-1-301.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $3,500,000; FY 08 not separately identifiable; and FY 09 est $800,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Range: $16,345 to $1,650,000; Average: $246,770.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  During FY 2006, projects were awarded for drainage water reuse and drainage
  water treatment projects dealing with drainage water from approximately 90,000
  acres of San Luis Unit area lands.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  43 CFR 12, http://www.access.gpo.gov/nara/cfr/cfr-table-search.html#page1/;
  OMB Circulars, http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/grants/grants_circulars.html/.
  These documents may also be obtained by contacting the Bureau of
  Reclamation.
Regional or Local Office:
  Technical/Program Information: Bureau of Reclamation, South-Central
  California Area Office, Attention: Michael Delamore, 1243 N Street, Fresno,
  CA, 93721. Telephone: (559) 487-5039. Fax: (559) 487-5130. E-mail:
  mdelamore@mp.usbr.gov/. Acquisition Office: Bureau of Reclamation, Mid-
  Pacific Regional Office, Acquisition Services, 2800 Cottage Way, Room E-
