  Oversight of the Development of Water Resources; Protection and Management          
  of Fish and Wildlife Resources; Projects related to Tribal Sovereignty; Long        
  Range Plan and Program Goal Development; Protection, Management and                 
  Augmentation of Habitat; Interactions Between Native and Non-Native Fish            
  Species; and Monitoring and Data Management. Periodically, the Bureau of            
  Reclamation will have discretionary funding available to make awards for            
  certain types of projects. When this project funding becomes available, funding     
  opportunity announcements will be posted to www.grants.gov.                         
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Federal and non-Federal entities.                                                   
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Indian Tribes in the location of the San Juan River Basin and in the Duchesne       
  River Basin, and the general public.                                                
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  None.                                                                               
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  Depending on the project to be accomplished, an environmental impact                
  statement may be required for this program, but not until after receipt of          
  applications. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372,               
  Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs.                                       
Application Procedure:                                                                
  All discretionary funding opportunities will be posted on www.grants.gov. The       
  funding opportunity will include the name of the Federal agency, the Funding        
  Opportunity Title of work associated with the project, the application due date,    
  eligible applicants, the federal funding amounts per agreement, the estimated       
  number of agreements to be awarded, and the overall total amount of funding         
  available for awards. All applicants, whether submitting projects under the         
  mandatory or discretionary portions of this authority, will be required to submit   
  a Standard Form 424, Application for Federal Assistance, and Standard Forms         
  424B or 424D for Assurances must also be submitted. A detailed budget               
  worksheet guide form will be included to assist in preparation of the budgeted      
  amount requested. The Funding Opportunity posting will identify the program         
  description, background and purpose, program objectives, objective or request       
  for proposals, eligible projects, types of projects, and program authority. General 
  provisions and special provisions, along with reporting requirements will be        
  identified to provide applicants with information that must be followed if an       
  award is made. The funding opportunity will identify a point of contact for         
  assistance or consultation for preparing the form.                                  
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Upon receipt of applications by the date identified in the announcement(s), the     
  applications will be reviewed to determine if applications are consistent with      
  requirements identified in the announcements. The application/proposal(s) are       
  reviewed by a Federal technical team of experts (along with state and private

  advisors) against identified criteria. Negotiations, revised applications, or       
  awards will be made based on recommendations from the technical experts.            
  Proposals submitted under the mandatory authority portion of this program will

  undergo a similar review and screening procedure.                                   
Deadlines:

  Any required deadlines for discretionary projects will be posted at                 
  www.grants.gov.                                                                     
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  90 Days.                                                                            
Appeals:                                                                              
  Not applicable. The Bureau of Reclamation will, however, provide all                
  applicants with information on why their proposals were not selected.               
Renewals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Non-Federal contributions to capital projects shall be made in accordance with      
  the provisions of Section 3(c) of the Act. Contact the Regional Office listed in    
  the contacts section, below, for further information regarding cost sharing         
  requirements.                                                                       
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Cooperative agreements and grants are normally written for a 1 to 5 year period.    
Reports:                                                                              
  Unless otherwise stated in the agreement document, recipients shall submit the      
  following reports on a quarterly basis: (1) SF-269/SF-269a Financial Status         
  Reports, (2) SF-272 Report of Federal Cash Transactions, and (3) program            
  performance reports. Annually, recipients shall submit an annual program            
  performance report. Upon completion of the agreement, recipients shall submit       
  final: (1) SF-269/SF-269a Financial Status Report, (2) final program                
  performance report, and (3) other specific reports that may be applicable to the    
  agreement such as property inventories, and patent and invention disclosures.       
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June          
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"      
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance ($500,000 for fiscal years     
  ending after December 1, 2003) or more a year in Federal awards will have a         
  single or a program specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities     
  that expend less than ($500,000 for fiscal years ending after December 1, 2003)     


466                                                                             11-08

  a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that
  year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  The Recipient shall maintain a complete, detailed accounting system to report
  expenditures of grant funds and accomplishments, or awards achieved under the
  award. Records, accounts, and supporting documents must be retained for 3
  years after final request of reimbursement.
Account Identification:
  14-4081-0-3-301.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $11,480,000; FY 08 est $1,600,000; and FY 09 est $1,900,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  From $16,080 to $289,394; with an average of $136,808.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  No applications were received in FY 2006. In prior years, an average of
  approximately 121 scopes of work per year are funded for both the Upper
  Colorado and the San Juan Programs.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  43 CFR 12, http://www.access.gpo.gov/nara/cfr/cfr-table-search.html#page1;
  OMB Circulars, http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/grants/grants_circulars.html;
  these documents may also be obtained by contacting the Bureau of Reclamation
  Office listed below.
Regional or Local Office:
  Brent Uilenberg, 2764 Compass Drive, Grand Junction, CO 81506, Telephone:
  (970) 248-0641, E-mail: builenberg@uc.usbr.gov.
Headquarters Office:
  None.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.usbr.gov/uc/wcao/rm/sjrip/ and
  http://www.fws.gov/southwest/sjrip/index.html/ .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Geomorphology projects, Fish Hatchery work (Raising and monitoring
  endangered Fish), Water Temp and Data Collection, Identification of
  characteristics of species spawning, population and habitat, Channel
  Morphology, Assessing population of endangered species and trophy fish,
  Habitat mapping, Rearing Pond Improvements, and Research Support for a
  Larval Fish Lab.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Specific evaluation criteria will be included in the funding announcement posted
  on www.grants.gov.
15.530 WATER CONSERVATION FIELD SERVICES
PROGRAM (WCFSP)
   (WCFSP)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  BUREAU OF RECLAMATION, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Soil and Moisture Conservation Act of 1935, Public Law 74-46, 49 Stat 163, 16
  U.S.C. 590 et seq., (through Section 6 of Reorganization Plan No. IV - 1940);
  Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act, Public Law 85-624, 75 Stat. 563, 16 U.S.C.
  661 et seq. (through Secretarial delegation at 255 DM 14); Reclamation Projects
  Authorization And Adjustment Act of 1992, Title XVI-Reclamation Wastewater
  and Groundwater Studies, and Title XXXIV-Central Valley Project Improvement
  Act, Public Law 102-575; Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act,
  2006, Title II, Section 205, Publication Law 109-103.
OBJECTIVES:
  The goal of the Water Conservation Field Services Program (WCFSP) is to
  actively encourage water conservation and efficient use of water supplies on
  Federal Reclamation projects, assist water districts with their responsibility to
  develop water conservation plans, implement measures identified in their plans,
  and complement and support State and other conservation programs.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funding is to be used for projects that fall under the following categories: (1)
  development of water management and conservation plans; (2) demonstration
  activities; and (3) implementation of efficiency measures. Financial assistance
  is generally limited to $25,000 or less.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Depending on the authorizing legislation, agricultural and/or
  municipal/industrial water districts, irrigation districts, water districts or entities,
  communities, state or local water agencies, water-related non-profit
  organizations, small entities (public or private) that have contracts for water with
  Reclamation under the Warren Act, Native American Tribes, universities or
  educational institutions proposing to conduct water conservation activities
  within Reclamation boundaries.
