Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  The general public and irrigation or water districts located in the 17 western      
  States identified in the Act of June 17, 1902, as amended; specifically, Arizona,   
  California, Colorado, Idaho, Kansas, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Mexico,         
  North Dakota, Oklahoma, Oregon, South Dakota, Texas, Utah, Washington, and          
  Wyoming.                                                                            
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  None.                                                                               
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  None. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372,                       
  Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs. An applicant should consult the       
  office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for
  more information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for   
  assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.                       
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Funding opportunity announcements for this program, along with registration         
  procedures, application packages and instructions, SF-424 forms and any other       
  forms to be used to submit application information, points of contact, and          
  procedures for submitting applications will be available on www.grants.gov.         
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  All applications will be initially screened for eligibility and compliance with the 
  requirements stated in the program funding announcement. Applications               
  passing this screening process will be forwarded for review by a proposal           
  evaluation panel comprised of qualified experts in the program area.                
  Applications will be reviewed against the proposal evaluation criteria, and any     
  additional review factors, as stated in the funding announcement. Final             
  selection will be determined by the Commissioner, Bureau of Reclamation, or         
  regional officials, as applicable to the project. The number of awards and          
  maximum funding amount per award are determined on an annual basis and are          
  dependent upon the amount of available funding in each Region.                      
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Varies by project. Deadline information will be included in all funding             
  opportunity announcements posted on www.grants.gov or you may contact the           
  appropriate WCFSP Coordinator, listed below, for further information.               
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Varies depending on the type and complexity of the project. Further information     
  will be available for each specific project at the time the funding opportunity     
  announcement is posted on www.grants.gov and may be obtained by contacting          
  the Reclamation personnel listed as the point of contact in the funding             
  announcement, or you may contact the appropriate WCFSP Coordinator, listed          
  below, for information.                                                             
Appeals:                                                                              
  None. Final award decisions are not subject to appeal; however, the Bureau of       
  Reclamation will provide all applicants with information on why their proposals     
  were not selected for award.                                                        
Renewals:                                                                             
  Continuation of funding for activities within the WCFSP from one fiscal year to     
  the next is at the discretion of Congress. Generally, applicants should propose     
  projects that can be completed within 24 months from the project start date.        
  However, multi-year proposals may be considered if it can be demonstrated that      
  there will be measurable on-the-ground accomplishments each year.                   
Formula and Matching Requirements:

  The Federal share of the cost of a project or activity carried out under the        
  WCFSP shall generally not exceed 50 percent of the total cost of the project or     
  activity, and dependent on the project and authorizing legislation, the Federal

  share of project funding may be less than 50 percent. Costs of operation,           
  maintenance, repair and rehabilitation of facilities funded under the authority of  
  this program shall be nonfederal responsibilities. Cost-share requirements may      
  vary by Region. Please contact the Regional or Area Office Water Conservation       
  Coordinator located in the Region in which the proposed project is located for      
  specific information. Projects awarded under the following authorities have         
  mandatory recipient cost sharing requirements as follows: Reclamation Projects      
  Authorization and Adjustment Act of 1992, Title XVI-Reclamation Wastewater          
  and Groundwater Studies, requires up to a 50 percent cost share for projects        
  awarded under Section 1604 and requires a 50 percent cost share for projects        
  awarded in accordance with Section 1605; Reclamation Projects Authorization         
  and Adjustment Act of 1992, Title XXXIV-Central Valley Project Improvement          
  Act, Public Law 102-575, cost share varies in accordance with the type of           
  project (see Section 3406 and 3407); and the Energy and Water Development           
  Appropriations Act, 2006, Title II, Public Law 109-103, requires a 50% cost         
  share in accordance with Section 205.                                               
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Projects typically are awarded for up to 24 months; however, some projects may      
  be awarded for periods of up to 5 years.                                            
Reports:                                                                              
  Unless otherwise stated in the agreement document, recipients shall submit the      
  following reports on a quarterly basis: (1) SF-269/SF-269a Financial Status         
  Reports, (2) SF-272 Report of Federal Cash Transactions, and (3) program            
  performance reports. Annually, recipients shall submit an annual program            
  performance report. Upon completion of the agreement, recipients shall submit       


                                                                                 11-08
  a final: (1) SF-269/SF-269a Financial Status Report, (2) final program
  performance report, and (3) other specific reports that may be applicable to the
  agreement such as property inventories, and patent and invention disclosures.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance ($500,000 for fiscal years
  ending after December 1, 2003) or more a year in Federal awards will have a
  single or a program specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities
  that expend less than ($500,000 for fiscal years ending after December 1, 2003)
  a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that
  year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  State, local and Indian Tribal governments shall maintain project records in
  accordance with 43 CFR 12.82. All other recipients shall maintain project
  records in accordance with 43 CFR 12.953.
Account Identification:
  14-1968-0-1-301.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $1,548,998; FY 08 est $14,340,000; and FY 09 est $4,594,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Not separately identifiable.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Assistance to districts towards development of water conservation plans,
  assistance with implementation of efficiency improvement measures identified
  in plans, demonstrations of new technology, leveraging of resources through
  collaboration between water districts and other entities by encouraging and
  developing partnerships.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  43 CFR 12, http://www.access.gpo.gov/nara/cfr/cfr-table-search.html#page1;
  OMB Circulars, http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/grants/grants_circulars.html;
  these documents may also be obtained by contacting the Reclamation Office
  listed below.
Regional or Local Office:
  Regional contact information may be found at
  http://www.usbr.gov/waterconservation/wtrctrs.html. This website includes a
  map to help you locate the appropriate office for your area. Not Applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  None.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.usbr.gov/waterconservation/.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  15.507, Water 2025.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Development of water conservation plans, implementation of water management
  efficiency improvements identified in plans such as canal lining, installation of
  automated control gates, installation of sprinkler and drip irrigation systems, and
  basin leveling and grading.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Specific evaluation criteria will be included in the funding announcements
  posted on www.grants.gov.
15.531 YAKIMA RIVER BASIN WATER ENHANCEMENT
PROJECT (YRBWEP)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  BUREAU OF RECLAMATION, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Yavapai-Prescott Indian Tribe Water Rights Settlement Act of 1994, Title
  XII,Yakima River Basin Water Enhancement Project, Public Law 103-434.
OBJECTIVES:
  Within the Yakima River Basin: (1) to protect, mitigate, and enhance fish and
  wildlife through improved water management; improved instream flows;
  improved water quality; protection, creation and enhancement of wetlands; and
  by other appropriate means of habitat improvement; (2) to improve the reliability
  of water supply for irrigation; (3) to authorize a Yakima River basin water
  conservation program that will improve the efficiency of water delivery and use;
  enhance basin water supplies; improve water quality; protect, create and enhance
  wetlands, and determine the amount of basin water needs that can be met by
  water conservation measures; (4) to realize sufficient water savings from the
  Yakima River Basin Water Conservation Program so that not less than 40,000
  acre-feet of water savings per year are achieved by the end of the fourth year of
  the Basin Conservation Program; (5) to encourage voluntary transactions among
  public and private entities which result in the implementation of water
  conservation measures, practices and facilities; and (6) to provide for the
  implementation by the Yakima Indian Nation at its sole discretion of (A) an
  irrigation demonstration project on the Yakima Indian Reservation using water
  savings from system improvements to the Wapato Irrigation Project, and (B) a
  Toppenish Creek corridor enhancement project integrating agricultural, fish,
  wildlife, and cultural resources.
                                                                                    467
