TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                    
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                              
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                              
  To participate in the Conservation Basin Program an entity must submit a              
  proposed water conservation plan to the Secretary of the Interior. Assistance is      
  limited to those entities (districts, irrigation districts, individuals, or other     
  entities) that equip all surface water delivery systems within their boundaries       
  with volumetric water meters or equally effective water measuring methods             
  within five years of the date of enactment of this Act. The Yakima Nation is not      
  included in the provisions of this, Section 1203, except as to any funds              
  specifically applied for from the Basin Conservation Program. The Secretary of        
  the Interior may use appropriated funds to purchase, or lease, land, water, or        
  water rights from an entity or individual willing to limit or forego water use on a   
  temporary or permanent basis. Funds used for purchase or lease under this             
  paragraph are not subject to the cost sharing provisions of Section 1203(d).          
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                  
  State of Washington, and Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments,              
  water and irrigation districts, and water rights owners located in the project area.  
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                
  Anyone/General Public, Intrastate, Local, Individual/Family, and Federally            
  Recognized Indian Tribal Governments within the project area.                         
Credentials/Documentation:                                                              
  Eligible entities must submit a proposal to develop a Water Conservation Plan.        
  Once the Water Conservation Plan has been developed it is to be submitted to          
  the Bureau of Reclamation, Pacific Northwest Region, Upper Columbia Area              
  Office, in accordance with the information included in the funding opportunity        
  announcement that will be posted at www.grants.gov. Only entities with                
  approved Water Conservation Plans are eligible for consideration for feasibility      
  studies. Only entities with an approved Water Conservation Plan and approved          
  feasibility study are eligible for potential implementation of conservation           
  measures.                                                                             
Preapplication Coordination:                                                            
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                        
Application Procedure:                                                                  
  Funding opportunity announcements for this program, along with registration           
  procedures, application packages and instructions, SF-424 forms and any other         
  forms to be used to submit application information, points of contact, and            
  procedures for submitting applications will be available on www.grants.gov.           
Award Procedure:                                                                        
  All applications will be initially screened for eligibility and compliance with the   
  requirements stated in the program funding announcement. Applications                 
  passing this screening process will be forwarded for review by a proposal             
  evaluation panel comprised of personnel from the Bureau of Reclamation,               
  Pacific Northwest Regional Office, who are qualified experts in the program           
  area. Applications will be reviewed against the proposal evaluation criteria, and     
  any additional review factors, as stated in the funding announcement. Final           
  selection will be determined by the Commissioner, Bureau of Reclamation, or           
  regional officials, as applicable to the project. Entities meeting the basic criteria 
  for participation in the YRBWEP must enter into a cost sharing agreement prior        
  to beginning project work.                                                            
Deadlines:                                                                              
  Varies by project. Deadline information will be included in all funding               
  opportunity announcements posted on www.grants.gov.                                   
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                     
  Varies depending on the type and complexity of the project. Further information       
  will be available for each specific project at the time the funding opportunity       
  announcement is posted on www.grants.gov and may be obtained by contacting

  the Reclamation personnel listed as the point of contact in the funding               
  announcement.                                                                         
Appeals:

  None. Final award decisions are not subject to appeal; however, the Bureau of         
  Reclamation will provide all applicants with information on why their proposals       
  were not selected for award.

Renewals:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                 
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                      
  Unless otherwise stated in the Act: (1) Development of water conservation plans       
  50 percent nonFederal share, but not more than $200,000 per recipient; (2)            
  Investigation of specific water conservation measures 50 percent State share and      
  20 percent local share, but sum of (1) and (2) shall not be greater than $200,000     
  per recipient; (3) and (4) Implementation and post implementation monitoring          
  and evaluation 17.5 percent State share, and 17.5 percent local share.(Section        
  1203(d)).                                                                             
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                  
  Agreements are normally written for a 1 to 5 year period. Implementation              
  agreements may be written to cover the period estimated in the approved Water         
  Conservation Plan and Feasibility Study.                                              
Reports:                                                                                
  Unless otherwise stated in the agreement document, recipients shall submit the        
  following reports on a quarterly basis: (1) SF-269/SF-269a Financial Status           


468                                                                               11-08

  Reports, (2) SF-272 Report of Federal Cash Transactions, and (3) Program
  performance reports. Annually, recipients shall submit an annual program
  performance report. Upon completion of the agreement, recipients shall submit
  a final: (1) SF-269/SF-269a Financial Status Report, (2) final program
  performance report, and (3) other specific reports that may be applicable to the
  agreement such as property inventories, and patent and invention disclosures.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance ($500,000 for fiscal years
  ending after December 1, 2003) or more a year in Federal awards will have a
  single or a program specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities
  that expend less than ($500,000 for fiscal years ending after December 1, 2003)
  a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that
  year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  State, local and Indian Tribal governments shall maintain project records in
  accordance with 43 CFR 12.82. All other recipients shall maintain project
  records in accordance with 43 CFR 12.953.
Account Identification:
  14-0680-0-1-301.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $9,865,864; FY 08 est $6,500,000; and FY 09 est $8,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Range from $5,000 to $21,000,000; Average $6,557,087.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY 2006, SDBOC will continue their improvement projects and an award to
  The Benton Irrigation District is expected to be finalized for an implementation
  grant to launch a multi-year project to improve their water delivery systems.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  43 CFR 12, http://www.access.gpo.gov/nara/cfr/cfr-table-search.html#page1;
  OMB Circulars, http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/grants/grants_circulars.html;
  these documents may also be obtained by contacting the Reclamation Office
  listed below.
Regional or Local Office:
  James A. Esget, YRBWEP Manager, 1917 Marsh Rd., Yakima, WA 98901.
  Telephone: (509) 575-5848 Ext. 267, Fax: (509) 454-5611, E-mail:
  jesget@pn.usbr.gov.
Headquarters Office:
  None.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.usbr.gov/pn/.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Development/Updating of Water Conservation Plan, Conduct Feasibility Study
  of Measures Identified in Water Conservation Plan, Implementation of Water
  Conservation Measures.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Specific evaluation criteria will be included in the funding announcements
  posted on www.grants.gov. Initial selection based on projects that would
  meet/fulfill the objectives of YRBWEP. After Water Conservation Plans are
  approved, feasibility studies are approved for those projects/measures that
  appear to result in the greatest benefit to YRBWEP. Implementation awards are
  based on those that are the most cost effective and result in the greatest water
  savings.
15.532 CENTRAL VALLEY PROJECT, TRINITY RIVER
DIVISION, TRINITY RIVER FISH AND WILDLIFE
MANAGEMENT
   (Trinity River Restoration Program)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  BUREAU OF RECLAMATION, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Central Valley Project Improvement Act (CVPIA), 1992, Public Law 102-575,
  Title 34, Section 3406(b)(1).
OBJECTIVES:
  To address impacts of the Central Valley Project (CVP) on fish, wildlife, and
  associated habitats in the Trinity River basin of California by protecting,
  restoring, and enhancing such habitats and to address other identified adverse
  environmental impacts of the Central Valley Project.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  All funding is discretionary and intended for projects that support the goals and
  objectives of the Program and meet the requirements specified in the CVPIA and
  Record of Decision.
Applicant Eligibility:
