  State and local entities, public nonprofit institutions/organizations, other public
  institutions/organizations, federally recognized Indian Tribal governments, small  
  businesses, profit organizations, private nonprofit institutions/organizations,    
  quasi- public nonprofit institutions/organizations, and other private              
  institutions/organizations.                                                        
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  General public, public institutions/organizations, Federally recognized Indian     
  Tribal Governments, small businesses, profit organizations, private nonprofit      
  institutions/organizations, quasi-public nonprofit institutions/organizations, and 
  other private institutions/organizations.                                          
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  None.                                                                              
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                           
Application Procedure:                                                               
  A request for applications (RFA) will be posted at Grants.gov as funding is made   
  available by the Bureau of Reclamation. Applications shall include: 1) A           
  detailed written technical proposal that should include information such as a      
  scope of work which separates the work into major tasks, the approach proposed     
  to accomplish the work, type of personnel who will participate in accomplishing    
  the work, background and location of applicant, any equipment that will be         
  utilized by the project applicant, experience in this type of work, an estimate of 
  the costs and/or cost savings, any economic benefit, and any other information     
  that may be useful for proposal evaluation. 2) A detailed cost proposal including  
  a budget covering salaries and wages, fringe benefits, travel, equipment,          
  supplies, subcontracts, indirect cost rates, funding sources and commitments,      
  cost-sharing, and a breakdown of costs by task. In addition, applicants must       
  submit all applicable SF 424 forms, which are referenced in the RFA.               
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  The number of awards, maximum funding amount per award, and areas of               
  interest for which proposals will be considered, are determined on an annual       
  basis and are dependent upon the annual appropriation from Congress.               
  Proposals received in response to the RFA are reviewed on the basis of a           
  competitive, merit-based review process, and are rated in accordance with the      
  evaluation criteria stated in the RFA. The review team will consist of Federal     
  personnel and qualified non-Federal personnel when specific expertise is           
  required by the review team. The Bureau of Reclamation will make awards to         
  the highest rated proposals based on the amount of funding available each year.    
  The Bureau of Reclamation reserves the right to prioritize projects based on       
  availability of funds and to ensure balance among the program objectives listed

  in the RFA.                                                                        
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Varies by project. Deadline information will be included in all funding

  opportunity announcements posted on www.grants.gov.                                
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

  Varies depending on the type and complexity of the project. Further information    
  will be provided for each specific project at the time the funding opportunity     
  announcement is posted on www.grants.gov.                                          
Appeals:                                                                             
  None. Final award decisions are not subject to appeal; however, the Bureau of      
  Reclamation will provide all applicants with information on why their proposals    
  were not selected for award.                                                       
Renewals:                                                                            
  If renewals or extensions are applicable to the project, this information will be  
  included in the funding opportunity announcement. When renewals or                 
  extensions are applicable, continuation of funding for these activities is at the  
  discretion of Congress and will be subject to availability of appropriated funds.  
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements; however,           
  project cost sharing is encouraged.                                                
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Proposals will be requested for projects of varying durations.                     
Reports:                                                                             
  Unless otherwise stated in the agreement document, recipients shall submit the     
  following reports on a quarterly basis: (1) SF-269/SF-269a Financial Status        
  Reports, (2) SF-272 Report of Federal Cash Transactions, and (3) Program           
  performance reports. Annually, recipients shall submit an annual program           
  performance report. Upon completion of the agreement, recipients shall submit      
  a final: (1) SF- 269/SF-269a Financial Status Report, (2) final program            
  performance report, and (3) other specific reports that may be applicable to the   
  agreement such as property inventories, and patent and invention disclosures.      
Audits:                                                                              
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June        
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"     
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance ($500,000 for fiscal years    
  ending after December 1, 2003) or more a year in Federal awards will have a        
  single or a program specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities    
  that expend less than ($500,000 for fiscal years ending after December 1, 2003)    
  a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that       
  year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.                                       


                                                                                11-08
Records:
  State, local and Indian Tribal governments shall maintain project records in
  accordance with 43 CFR 12.82. All other recipients shall maintain project
  records in accordance with 43 CFR 12.953.
Account Identification:
  14-0680-0-1-300.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $1,705,038; FY 08 est $1,000,000; and FY 09 est $1,500,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Range $24,000 - $550,000; Average $170,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  To date, program accomplishments include completion of modifications on four
  bridges; modification of floodplain infrastructures allowing for peak releases of
  up to 11,000 cubic feet per second; completion of the two largest releases for
  fishery restoration purposes since the opening of the dams in 1963; and
  construction of several channel rehabilitation projects. It is anticipated that 8 to
  10 projects will be awarded funding in fiscal year 2007. Depending on funding
  appropriations, a similar number of awards are projected for fiscal year 2008.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Regulations: 43 CFR 12, http://www.access.gpo.gov/nara/cfr/cfr-table-
  search.html#page1; OMB Circulars,
  http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/grants/grants_circulars.html.
Regional or Local Office:
  Bureau of Reclamation, Trinity River Restoration Program, Attn: Doug
  Schleusner, P.O. Box 1300, Weaverville, CA 96093. Telephone: (530) 623-
  1800. Fax: (530) 623-5944.
Headquarters Office:
  None.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.usbr.gov/mp/ncao/ .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Public Information and Outreach, Watershed Coordination, Target Watershed
  Implementation, Grass Valley Creek Watershed Monitoring, and Habitat
  Assessment.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Evaluation criteria will vary according to project and will be included in the
  funding announcements posted on www.grants.gov.
15.533 CALIFORNIA WATER SECURITY AND
ENVIRONMENTAL ENHANCEMENT
   (CALFED)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  BUREAU OF RECLAMATION, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Water Supply, Reliability, and Environmental Improvement Act, Title I
  California Water Security and Environmental Enhancement, Public Law 108-
  361.
OBJECTIVES:
  The purpose of the CALFED Bay-Delta Authorization Act is to authorize the
  Secretary of the Interior and the heads of the other Federal implementing
  agencies to carry out specific activities identified in the Act in furtherance of the
  CALFED Bay-Delta Program as set forth in the CALFED Bay-Delta Program
  Record of Decision dated August 28, 2000. The primary objectives of the
  program are to expand water supplies to ensure efficient use through an array of
  projects and approaches, improve water quality from source to tap, improve the
  health of the Bay-Delta system through restoring and protecting habitats and
  native species, and improve the Bay-Delta levees to provide flood protection,
  ecosystem benefits, and protect water supplies.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  For Fiscal Year 2007, appropriations provided to the Bureau of Reclamation are
  limited to supporting the development of activities that will contribute to
  implementation of Delta Vision under Section 103(f)(4)(A) and (B) of Public
  Law 108-361. Available funding is limited to grants and cooperative agreements
  with agencies of the State of California that will lead toward the establishment of
  a sustainable management program for the Sacramento-San Joaquin Bay. Of the
  amounts made available under Section 103(f)(A), not less than 50 percent shall
  be provided to the California Bay-Delta Authority to carry out Program-wide
  management, oversight, and coordination activities.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Agencies of the State of California.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  The general public located in and near the California Bay-Delta area.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
                                                                                     469
