Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                          
Application Procedure:                                                              
  Applicant must submit all applicable SF-424 forms; and a statement of work        
  separating the work into major tasks, level of cooperation with parties involved, 
  and how the subject proposal will provide the outcome sought.                     
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  Applications will be initially screened for eligibility and compliance with the   
  requirements stated in the program funding announcement. Applications             
  passing this screening process will be forwarded for review by a proposal         
  evaluation panel comprised of qualified Federal or nonFederal experts in the      
  program area. Applications will be reviewed against the proposal evaluation       
  criteria, and any additional review factors, as stated in the funding             
  announcement. Final selection will be determined by the Commissioner, Bureau      
  of Reclamation, or regional officials, as applicable to the project. Maximum      
  funding amount is dependent upon the annual appropriation from Congress.          
Deadlines:                                                                          
  Contact the Bureau of Reclamation, Mid-Pacific Region, MP-120 Special             
  Projects Office, Sacramento, CA at (916) 978-5022.                                
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  Varies depending on the type and complexity of the project or activity.           
Appeals:                                                                            
  None.

Renewals:                                                                           
  Continuation of funding from one fiscal year to the next is at the discretion of

  Congress.                                                                         
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  The Federal share of the costs of a project or activity carried out under this

                                                                                    
  Program may vary dependent upon activity and authority. Costs of operation,

                                                                                    
  maintenance, repair and rehabilitation of facilities shall be a nonfederal        
  responsibility. Per Section 103(f)(4)(B), PROGRAM-WIDE ACTIVITIES, of             
  the amount referred to in subparagraph (A), not less than 50 percent of the       
  appropriated amount shall be provided to the California Bay-Delta Authority to    
  carry out Program-wide management, oversight, and coordination activities.        
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  Generally for 24 months or less; multi-year projects may be considered if         
  justified and annual accomplishments can be demonstrated.                         
Reports:                                                                            
  Unless otherwise stated in the agreement document, recipients shall submit the    
  following reports on a quarterly basis: (1) SF-269/SF-269a Financial Status       
  Reports, (2) SF-272 Report of Federal Cash Transactions, and (3) Program          
  performance reports. Annually, recipients shall submit an annual program          
  performance report. Upon completion of the agreement, recipients shall submit     
  a final: (1) SF-269/SF-269a Financial Status Report, (2) final program            
  performance report, and (3) other specific reports that may be applicable to the  
  agreement such as property inventories, and patent and invention disclosures.     
Audits:                                                                             
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June        
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"    
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance ($500,000 for fiscal years   
  ending after December 1, 2003) or more a year in Federal awards will have a       
  single or a program specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities   
  that expend less than ($500,000 for fiscal years ending after December 1, 2003)   
  a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that      
  year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.                                      
Records:                                                                            
  State, local and Indian Tribal governments shall maintain project records in      
  accordance with 43 CFR 12.82. All other recipients shall maintain project         
  records in accordance with 43 CFR 12.953.                                         
Account Identification:                                                             
  10-0687-0-1-301.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  (Grants) FY 07 $1,000,000; FY 08 not separately identifiable; and FY 09 est.      
  $3,500,000.                                                                       
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  Range $35,000 - $1,650,000; average $281,663.                                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

                                                                                    
  For Fiscal Year 2006, the Bureau of Reclamation awarded $2.8 million in

                                                                                    
  CALFED Water Use Efficiency (WUE) grants for projects located throughout          
  California. As a participating agency in the CALFED Bay-Delta Program, the        
  Bureau of Reclamation's Mid-Pacific and Lower Colorado Regions worked in          
  partnership with the California Department of Water Resources, State Water        
  Resources Control Board, and CALFED to award WUE projects that had a              
  defined relationship to the Bay-Delta. When the matching contributions of         
  nonfederal partners are included, the selected projects represent a combined      
  investment of more than $6.5 million towards enhancing water management           
  throughout the CALFED focus area.                                                 
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  www.access.gpo.gov/nara/cfr/cfr-table-search.html#page1; OMB Circulars            
  www.whitehouse.gov/omb/grants/grants_circulars.html; Standard Forms               


470                                                                           11-08

  www.whitehouse.gov/omb/grants/grants_forms.html; Documents may also be
  obtained by contacting the Bureau of Reclamation or CALFED at
  calwater.ca.gov.
Regional or Local Office:
  Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior, Mid-Pacific Region, 2800
  Cottage Way, Special Projects Office (MP-120), Sacramento, CA 95825;
  Telephone: (916) 978-5022; Fax: (916) 978-5528.
Headquarters Office:
  Contact Regional Office.
Web Site Address:
  www.mp.usbr.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  The CALFED WUE Grants program funded agricultural and urban projects that
  focused on improving ecosystem health, water supply reliability, or water quality
  of the Bay-Delta. Cost sharing was provided for system modernization
  improvements, measurement devices, seepage reduction, leak detection,
  landscape incentives, and weather-based irrigation controllers.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Specific evaluation criteria will be included in application packages and any
  funding announcements posted on www.grants.gov.
15.534 MISCELLANEOUS PUBLIC LAW 93-638
CONTRACTS, GRANTS, AND COOPERATIVE
AGREEMENTS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  BUREAU OF RECLAMATION, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, Public Law 93-638,
  Title I, 25 U.S.C. 450 est. seq., as amended; and stuatory authorities that
  authorize each specific project.
OBJECTIVES:
  Project funds are to be provided on a non-reimbursable basis for construction
  and/or non-construction activities which are primarily for the benefit of Indians
  because of their status as Indians.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments for Specified Use (Cooperative Agreements); Project Grants
  (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Contracts, grants, and cooperative agreements are authorized for construction
  and non-construction projects. Certain restrictions will be applicable based on
  the specific statuatory authority that authorizes the project. This CFDA number
  will not be utilized if there is a more specific CFDA number applicable to the
  project such as for projects awarded under the Colorado Ute Indian Water Rights
  Settlement Act.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Federally recognized Indian tribes and tribal organizations in the 17 western
  states are eligible applicants; however, eligibility alone does not establish a
  "program."
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Federally recognized Indian tribes and tribal organizations.
Credentials/Documentation:
  (1) Each contract, grant, or cooperative agreement requires project specific
  authority. (2) Detailed written technical proposals including background data
  regarding the applicants, technical approaches proposed to accomplish the work,
  scopes of work that separate the work into major tasks, types of personnel
  implementing the proposals, experience in peforming these types of work,
  timeliness, the levels of cooperation with other parties involved in the proposals,
  and other information that may be useful for proposal evaluation. (3) Detailed
  project cost proposals, including budgets with estimated project costs, including
  salaries and wages, fringe benefits, travel, equipment, supplies, contracts, and
  indirect costs, and the values of any in-kind contribution of goods and services.
  (4) The awarded contract, grant, or cooperative agreement must contain an
  authorizing resolution of the governing body of the Indian tribe.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Initial proposals must contain the information specified as 25 CFR Part 900.
  Proposals shall be submitted to the applicable Reclamation office with
  responsibility for the specific project for which a Tribe or tribal organization
  proposes to participate. Reclamation will provide technical assistance to Tribes
  in the development of their proposals as requested, pending availability of
  appropriations.
Award Procedure:
  Reclamation and the Tribe develop a negotiation schedule and then negotiate the
  overarching contract/award terms, provisions and conditions based on the
  requirements of Public Law 93-638, 25 CFR Part 900, any specific requirements
  of the project authorizing legislation, and other applicable Federal laws and
