  Formula Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Approvable activities include land acquisition, development (including boating     
  access sites), research, operations and maintenance, sport fish population         
  management and program coordination. Prohibited activities are law                 
  enforcement and public relations.                                                  
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Participation is limited to State, Commonwealth, or territorial agencies with lead 
  management responsibility for fish and wildlife resources. States,                 
  Commonwealths, and territories must pass laws (assent legislation) for the         
  conservation of fish, which includes a prohibition against diversion of license    
  fees paid by anglers for purposes other than the administration of the State,      
  Commonwealth, or territorial fish and wildlife agency.                             
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  General Public (While direct participation is limited to fish and wildlife         
  agencies, the public will ultimately benefit from these fishery conservation       
  measures.)                                                                         
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  States, Commonwealths, or territories must notify the Secretary of the desire to   
  participate annually. The State, Commonwealth, or territorial fish and wildlife    
  Director must furnish a certification of the number of paid angler license         
  holders. Allowable costs are determined in accordance with 43 CFR Part 12,         
  Subpart C, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative         
  Agreements to State and Local Governments."                                        
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental         
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official    
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State, Commonwealth, or    
  territory for more information on the process required by the State,               
  Commonwealth, or territory when applying for assistance, if the State,             
  Commonwealth, or territory selected a program for review.                          
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Grantee may document initial program by submission of a satisfactory fish          
  conservation plan. Grantees will submit grant proposals that include a narrative   
  statement describing the need, objectives, benefits, approach, and estimated cost  
  for the proposed grant along with the standard application forms furnished by      
  the Federal agency and required by 43 CFR Part 12, Subpart C, "Uniform             
  Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State         
  and Local Governments" and Fish and Wildlife Service Manual. For further           
  instructions and forms go to                                                       
  http://wsfrprograms.fws.gov/subpages/toolkitfiles/toolkit.pdf or                   
  www.grants.gov.                                                                    
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  The Regional Director of the Fish and Wildlife Service or his or her designee      
  approves or disapproves proposed grants. Regional Offices are responsible for      
  notification of grant approval to the grantee.                                     
Deadlines:                                                                           
  None.                                                                              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Approximately 30 days.                                                             
Appeals:                                                                             
  Regional Directors will consider differences of opinion concerning the eligibility 
  of proposals. Final determination rests with the Director of the U.S. Fish and     
  Wildlife Service.                                                                  
Renewals:                                                                            
  Grantees may renew projects on an annual basis if justified and if funds are       
  available.                                                                         
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Formula-based apportionment; 40 percent based on land and water area of the        
  State and 60 percent based on licensed anglers; no State receives more than 5      
  percent or less than one-third of 1 percent of the total funds apportioned to the  
  program; the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico is apportioned 1 percent; and             
  Guam, U.S. Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of Northern Mariana Islands,           
  American Samoa, and the District of Columbia are each apportioned up to one-       
  third of 1 percent of the total apportioned. States may be reimbursed up to 75     
  percent of the total project cost. Commonwealths of Puerto Rico and the            
  Northern Mariana Islands, and the territories of Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands,    
  and American Samoa must not exceed 25 percent and may be waived at the             
  discretion of the Regional Director. The non-Federal share could come from         
  license fees paid by hunters. Matching and cost-sharing requirements are           
  discussed in 50 CFR 80.12, 43 CFR 12.64 and 43 CFR 12.923.                         
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Sport Fish Restoration funds are available for a period of two years. Any funds    
  not obligated within two years by a State, Commonwealth, or territorial fish and   
  wildlife agency will revert to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and placed back  
  into the Sport Fish Restoration and Boating Trust Fund for obligation to States,   
  Commonwealths, or territories in the following year's apportionment.               
Reports:                                                                             
  A Performance Report and Financial Status Report are required for each grant or

  grant segment annually within 90 days after the anniversary date and/or end of

                                                                                     
472                                                                            11-08

  the grant.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that receive financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Cost records must be maintained separately for each grant. Records, accounts,
  and supporting documents must be retained for 3 years after submission of the
  final Financial Status Report.
Account Identification:
  14-8151-0-7-303.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $349,089,063; FY 08 $398,337,729; and FY 09 est
  $410,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $900,000 to $14,700,000; $5,200,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  The Dingell-Johnson Sport Fish Restoration Act grant programs contribute
  significantly to the nation's acquatic recreation and fisheries conservation
  efforts. Already successful, the programs' accomplishments will continue to
  increase in the coming years because of the increased funding that is resulting
  from the SAFETEA-LU (Public Law 109-059) legislation. Some examples of
  activities planned by State, Commonwealth, and territorial fish and wildflife
  agencies in FY 2008 include: Acquire 494 acres of tidal marshes, 81 acres of
  tide flats, and 49 acres of uplands habitat in Oregan that is critical to Federal and
  State listed species, migratory shorebirds, and waterfowl. In addition, this will
  provide opportunities for a variety of public educational and recreational uses in
  Oregon; Replace the boat ramp and boat dock at Placid Lake State Park and
  pave the boating ramp access road and parking lot at Salmon Lake State Park in
  Montana; Conduct restoration and enhancement projects on American shad and
  hickory populations in three tributary rivers to the Chesapeake Bay in Maryland;
  and Operate and maintain 23 public lakes that will supply approximately
  240,000 angler trips per year in 20 Alabama Counties.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  50 CFR 80; Acquatic Resource Education Guide; and Fish and Wildlife Service
  Manual. Matching and cost-sharing requirements are discussed in 50 CFR
  80.12, 43 CFR 12.64 and 43 CFR 12.923. Applicants can visit these regulations
  and guidelines at http://wsfrprograms.fws.gov/subpages/toolkitfiles/toolkit.pdf.
Regional or Local Office:
  See Catalog Appendix IV for addresses of Regional Fish and Wildlife Service
  Offices.
Headquarters Office:
  Fish and Wildlife Service, Wildlife and Sport Fish Restoration Programs - Policy
  and Programs, 4401 North Fairfax Drive, FA-4020, Arlington, VA 22203.
  Contact: Policy and Programs, Telephone: (703) 358-2156.
Web Site Address:
  http://wsfrprograms.fws.gov/.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  11.405, Anadromous Fish Conservation Act Program; 11.407, Interjurisdictional
  Fisheries Act of 1986; 15.608, Fish and Wildlife Management Assistance;
  15.611, Wildlife Restoration.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Strawberry Reservoir Sport Fish Management - Utah: Biologists with the Utah
  Division of Wildlife Resources are managing the most popular sport fishery in
  Utah with 75% of the funding coming from the Sport Fish Restoration Fund.
  Strawberry Reservoir is 17,000 surface acres at maximum pool. Approximately
  1.4 million angler hours of fishing occur on Strawberry Reservoir annually. In
  2004, the average summer catch rate was 0.61 fish per hour. This was the third
  highest catch rate ever recorded for Strawberry Reservoir going back to 1947.
  Two full time biologist and many days of volunteer help from Strawberry
  Anglers (a volunteer angling group) manage this project. Perry R. Bass Marine
  Fisheries Station - Texas: Through funds from the Sport Fish Restoration
  program, the Perry R. Bass Marine Research Facility continues operation and
  maintenance practices to provide research on several saltwater species. In
  addition to the innovative marine research, the associated hatchery annually
  produces 4.5 million fry/fingerling of red drum and spotted sea trout. These fish
  generate more than 300,000 angler days annually along the Texas Gulf Coast.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The State, Commonwealth, or territorial agency having lead responsibility for
  the management of the State's, Commonwealth's, or territorial's fish resources
  must submit the projects. The State, Commonwealth, or territorial agency
  selects those projects submitted for funding under the program. If approved,
  pojects must meet the basic criteria outlined in the regulations and the Fish and
  Wildlife Service Manual.
15.608 FISH AND WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT ASSISTANCE
