FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     
  FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                      
  Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act of 1958, 16 U.S.C. 661-666; Fish and           
  Wildlife Act of 1956, as amended, 16 U.S.C. 742a-742j; Sikes Act of 1974, as      
  amended, 16 U.S.C. 670(a)-670(o); Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation     
  Act, 16 U.S.C. 3101; Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972, Public Law 92-         
  522, as amended, 16 U.S.C. 1361-1421; Nonindigenous Aquatic Nuisance              
  Prevention and Control Act of 1990, as amended, 16 U.S.C. 4701-4741; Great        
  Lakes Fish and Wildlife Restoration Act as amended 1998.                          
OBJECTIVES:                                                                         
  To provide technical information, advice, and assistance to other Federal         
  agencies, other nations, States, and Native Americans on the conservation and     
  management of fish and wildlife resources, including co-management by             
  Alaskan Natives of marine mammals for subsistence use.                            
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                
  Provision of Specialized Services.                                                
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                          
  Assistance in the form of biological, chemical, and physical advice regarding     
  land and water management and specific recommendations and plans based on         
  the conditions found to exist. Stocking of fishes from National Fish Hatcheries   
  and advising on wildlife management techniques may be management tools            
  considered. The program does not provide financial assistance for construction    
  of ponds, lakes, wood duck boxes, or for other purposes.                          
Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  Applicants may be other Federal agencies, State agencies, local governments,      
  Native American Organizations, Interstate, Intrastate, public nonprofit           
  institution/organization, other public institution/organization, private          
  nonprofit/organization, or any other organization subject to the jurisidiction of 
  the United States with interests which support the mission of the Service on a    
  cost recoverable basis.                                                           
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                            
  Federal agencies, State agencies, local governments, Native Americans,            
  Interstate, Intrastate, public nonprofit institution/organization, other public   
  institution/organization, private nonprofit/organization, or any other            
  organization subject to the jurisdiction of the United States with interests which
  support the mission of the Service on a cost recoverable basis.                   
Credentials/Documentation:

  There must be factual evidence of the need for management assistance.             
Preapplication Coordination:

  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                    
Application Procedure:

  Generally in the form of a letter to the Regional Directors of the U.S. Fish and  
  Wildlife Service stating the need for management assistance and requesting the    
  services available.                                                               
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  After considering program commitments and obligations, State, Federal             
  agencies, or Native Americans will generally be informed by letter from the       
  Director or Regional Director, followed by development of a formal                
  Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) or understanding (MOU).                             
Deadlines:                                                                          
  None.                                                                             
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  Not applicable.                                                                   
Appeals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                             
Renewals:                                                                           
  Not applicable.                                                                   
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  Not applicable, however, assistance is provided only on a cost recoverable basis. 
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                   
Reports:                                                                            
  Reports are submitted annually to the entities involved. Occasionally, progress   
  reports are considered to be advisable. Fish and Wildlife Management Plans are    
  developed as required.                                                            
Audits:                                                                             
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June        
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit                   
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that receive financial assistance of $500,000 
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit          
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a     
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,  
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.                                            
Records:                                                                            
  Grants awarded to State and Local Governments will be maintained in               
  accordance with the provisions of 43 CFR Part 12, Subpart C, "Uniform             
  Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State        
  and Local Governments." Records for grants awarded to institutions of higher      
  education and other nonprofit organizations will be maintained in accordance      
                                                                                    
                                                                               11-08
  with the provisions of 43 CFR Part 12, Subpart F, "Uniform Administrative
  Requirements for Grants and Agreements With Institutions of Higher Education,
  Hosptials, and Other Nonprofit Organizations."
Account Identification:
  14-1611-0-1-303.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $250,000; FY 08 $250,000; and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Not applicable.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Fish and Wildlife Service provides technical assistance to more than 100 Native
  American Tribes, 254 National Wildlife Refuges, and 150 Department of
  Defense installations. Cooperative programs with the State conservation
  agencies and military installations have included joint studies of fishery and
  wildlife problems of major watersheds, large reservoirs, or streams. Through the
  Sikes Act, the Service has established a Memorandum of Understanding with
  the Department of Defense whereby fish and wildlife values are considered on
  military installations. The Service developed a policy in cooperation with
  Native Americans for fish and wildlife management on/off Tribal lands.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Annual Project Reports, Special Reports, and Fish and Wildlife Management
  Plans.
Regional or Local Office:
  See Catalog Appendix IV for addresses.
Headquarters Office:
  Chief, Division of Fish and Wildlife Management and Habitat Restoration,
  Room 840 ARLSQ, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior,
  Washington, DC 20240. Telephone: (703) 358-1718. Use the same number for
  FTS.
Web Site Address:
  HTTP://fisheries.fws.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  15.605, Sport Fish Restoration Program; 15.611, Wildlife Restoration.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
15.611 WILDLIFE RESTORATION
   (Pittman-Robertson Program or P-R Program)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act of 1937, 50 Stat. 917 as amended;
  16 U.S.C. 669-669k.
OBJECTIVES:
  The Act provides funding for the selection, restoration, rehabilitation, and
  improvement of wildlife habitat; wildlife management research; wildlife
  population surveys and inventories; land acquisition, coordination; development
  of facilities; facilities and services for conducting a hunter education and safety
  program; and provisions for public use of wildlife resources. Some eligible
  activities include planting food plots for wildlife; posting boundaries on wildlife
  management areas; building roads and trails; controlling noxious vegetation; and
  providing public access to wildlife-related recreation opportunities. Section 4(c)
  Hunter Education program could include training in the safe handling and use of
  firearms and archery equipment; hunter responsibilities and ethics; construction,
  operation, and maintenance of public shooting ranges; and basic wildlife
  management and identification.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Approved activities include selection, restoration, rehabilitation, and
  improvement of wildlife habitat; wildlife management reserach; wildlife
  population surveys and inventories; land acquisition; coordination; development
  of facilities; facilities and services for conducting a hunter safety program; and
  provisions for public use of wildlife resources. Prohibited activities are law
  enforcement and public relations.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Participation is limited to State, Commonwealth, or territorial agencies with lead
  management responsibility for fish and wildlife resources. States,
  Commonwealths, and territories must pass laws (assent legislation) for the
  conservation of wildlife, which include a prohibition against diversion of license
  fees paid by hunters for purposes other than the administration of the State,
  Commonwealth, or territorial fish and wildlife agency.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  General Public (While direct participation is limited to fish and wildlife
  agencies, the general public will ultimately benefit from these wildlife
  conservation measures.)
Credentials/Documentation:
                                                                                    473
