  States, Commonwealths, or territories must notify the Secretary of the desire to   
  participate annually. The State, Commonwealth, or territorial fish and wildlife    
  Director must furnish a certification of the number paid hunting-license holders.  
  Allowable costs are determined in accordance with 43 CFR Part 12, Subpart C,       
  "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements         
  to State and Local Governments."                                                   
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental         
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official    
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State, Commonwealth, or    
  territory for more information on the process required by the State,               
  Commonwealth, or territory when applying for assistance, if the State,             
  Commonwealth, or territory selected a program for review.                          
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Grantees will submit a grant proposal that includes a narrative statement          
  describing the need, objectives, benefits, approach, and estimated cost for the    
  proposed grant along with the standard application forms furnished by the          
  Federal agency and required by 43 CFR Part 12, Subpart C, "Uniform                 
  Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State         
  and Local Governments" and Fish and Wildlife Service Manual. For further           
  instructions and forms go to                                                       
  http://wsfrprograms.fws.gov/subpages/toolkitfiles/toolkit.pdf or                   
  www.grants.gov.                                                                    
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  The Regional Director of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service or his designee        
  approves or disapproves proposed grants. Regional Offices are responsible for      
  notification of grant approval to the grantee.                                     
Deadlines:                                                                           
  None.                                                                              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Average 30 days.                                                                   
Appeals:                                                                             
  Regional Directors will consider differences of opinion concerning the eligibility 
  of proposals. Final determination rests with the Director of the Fish and Wildlife 
  Service.                                                                           
Renewals:                                                                            
  Grantees may renew projects on an annual basis if justified and if funds are       
  available.                                                                         
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Formula-based apportionment; 50 percent based on land area of the State,           
  Commonwealth, or territory and 50 percent based on paid hunting license            
  holders; no State may receive more than 5 percent or less than one-half of 1       
  percent of the total apportionment; the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico is             
  apportioned up to one-half of 1 percent; and Guam, U.S. Virgin Islands,            
  American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of Northern Mariana Islands each              
  receive up to one-sixth of 1 percent of the total apportionment. One-half of the   
  11-12.4 percent excise tax on archery equipment and 10 percent excise tax on       
  handguns, pistols, and revolvers makeup the funding for Hunter Education           
  program. The other one-half of the excise tax collected are for wildlife           
  restoration purposes. Hunter Education funds are formula-based apportionment       
  based on population of the States. No State may receive more than 3 percent or     
  less than 1 percent of the total Hunter Education funds apportioned.               
  Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, U.S. Virgin Islands, American Samoa,            
  and the Commonwealth of Northern Mariana Islands receive up to one-sixth of 1      
  percent of the total apportionment. Statistical factors used for fund allocation   
  are (1) States' percentage share of land area from 2000 Census of Population; (2)  
  States' percentage share of number of paid hunting license holders, from the       
  source annually certified by each State's fish and wildlife agency; (3) State's    
  percentage share of population (hunter education) from the source 2000 Census      
  of Population. Statistical factors used for eligibility do not apply for this      
  program. States may be reimbursed up to 75 percent of the total project cost.      
  Commonwealths of Puerto Rico and the Northern Mariana Islands, and the             
  territories of Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and American Samoa must not          
  exceed 25 percent and may be waived at the discretion of the Regional Director.    
  The non-Federal share could come from license fees paid by hunters. Matching       
  and cost-sharing requirements are discussed in 50 CFR 80.12, 43 CFR 12.64          
  and 43 CFR 12.923.                                                                 
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Apportioned funds are available for obligation for a period of two years.          
  Balances remaining unobligated after the period of availability revert to the U.S. 
  Fish and Wildlife Service. Any funds not obligated within two years by a State,    
  Commonwealth, or territorial fish and wildlife agency revert to the U.S. Fish and

  Wildlife Service and will be spent under the provision of the Migratory Bird       
  Conservation Act. Also, under the provisions of the Wildlife Restoration Act,

  the interest accumulated by Wildlife Restoration account is available to the

                                                                                     
  North American Wetland Conservation program.                                       
Reports:

  A Performance Report and Financial Status Report are required for each grant       
  award annually within 90 days after the anniversary date and/or end of the grant.  
Audits:                                                                              


474                                                                            11-08

  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that receive financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Cost records must be maintained separately for each grant. Records, accounts,
  and supporting documents must be retained for three years after submission of
  the final Financial Status Report.
Account Identification:
  14-5029-0-2-303.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $241,310,443; FY 08 $301,686,579; and FY 09 est
  $310,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $268,000 to $7,187,000; $2,750,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  The Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act grant programs contribute
  significantly to the nation's wildlife conservation and hunter education efforts
  annually. Already successful, the programs' accomplishments will continue to
  increase in the coming years because of the increased funding that is resulting.
  Some specific accomplishnmentts by State, Commonwealth, and territorial fish
  and wildlife agencies in FY 2006 include: Operations and maintenance of State
  facilities and wildlife management areas encompassing more than 30.3 million
  acres; 3.5 million acres of habitat improvements for wildlife species; 3,680
  scientific research projects for wildlife species - including propagation, biology,
  utilization, and habitat needs; technical assistance for wildlife management
  provided to 47,872 private landowners; 209,237 acres of waterfowl
  impoundment improvements conducted for waterfowl management, and 553,788
  students certified in Hunter Education.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  50 CFR 80, Hunter Education Guide, Fish and Wildlife Service Manual,
  Matching and cost-sharing requirements are discussed in 50 CFR 80.12, 43 CFR
  12.64, and 43 CFR 12.923. Applicants can visit these regulations and
  guidelines at http://wsfrprograms.fws.gov/subpages/toolkitfiles/toolkit.pdf.
Regional or Local Office:
  See Catalog Appendix IV for addresses of Regional U.S. Fish and Wildlife
  Service Offices.
Headquarters Office:
  Fish and Wildlife Service, Wildlife and Sport Fish Restoration Programs - Policy
  and Programs, 4401 North Fairfax Drive, FA-4020, Arlington, VA 22203.
  Contact: Policy and Programs, Telephone: (703)358-2156.
Web Site Address:
  http://wsfrprograms.fws.gov/.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  15.605, Sport Fish Restoration Program; 15.615, Cooperative Endangered
  Species Conservation Fund; 15.626, Hunter Education and Safety Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  The Wildlife Restoration program has provided a stable Federal funding source
  for State Fish and Wildlife agencies for over 70 years. This funding stability is
  critical to the recovery of many United States' wildlife species. Some examples
  of activities planned by State, Commonwealth, and territorial fish and wildlife
  agencies in FY 2008 include: operation and maintenance of 89 wildlife
  management areas in Georgia that provide approximately one million acres
  habitat for wildlife and related wildlife recreation such as hunting and wildlife
  viewing; manage hunter education and safety programs in 50 States, the U.S.
  Virgin Islands, Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; continued population surveys on
  black bear, wild turkey, white-tailed deer, moose, and waterfowl in Vermont;
  enhancement of 10,200 acres of shallow wetland and wet meadow habitat types
  unique to Carson Lake, Nevada; and design and implementation of landscape
  scale habitat improvement projects in critical wildlife areas throughout New
  Mexico.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The State, Commonwealt, or territorial agency having lead responsibility for the
  management of the State's Commonwealth's, or territorial's wildlife resources
  must submit the projects. The State, Commonwealth, or territorial agency
  selects those projects submitted for funding under the program. If approved,
  projects must meet the basic criteria outlined in the regulations and the Fish and
  Wildlife Service Manual.
15.614 COASTAL WETLANDS PLANNING, PROTECTION
AND RESTORATION ACT
   (National Coastal Wetlands Conservation Grants)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
