  Coastal Wetlands Planning, Protection and Restoration Act, Section 305, Title      
  III, Public Law 101-646, 16 U.S.C. 3951-3956.                                      
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To provide competitive matching grants to coastal States for coastal wetlands      
  conservation projets. The Coastal Wetlands Planning, Protection, and               
  Restoration Act (Section 305, Title III, Public Law 101-646 U.S.C. 3954)           
  established the National Coastal Wetlands Conservation Grant Program to            
  acquire, restore, and enhance wetlands in coastal States.                          
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Funds are available to coastal States for acquisition of interests in coastal lands
  or waters, and for restoration, enhancement or management of coastal wetlands      
  ecosystems on a competitive basis. Proposed projects must provide for long-term    
  conservation of such lands or waters and the hydrology, water quality, and fish    
  and wildlife dependent thereon. Ineligible activities include: (1) projects that   
  primarily benefit navigation, irrigation, flood control or mariculture; (2)        
  acquisition, restoration, enhancement or management of lands to mitigate habitat   
  losses; (3) creation of wetlands where wetlands did not previously exist; (4)      
  enforcement of fish and wildlife laws and regulations, except when necesssary      
  for the accomplishment of approved project purposes; (5) research; (6) planning    
  as a primary project focus: (7) operations and maintenance; (8)acquisition         
  and/or restoration of upper portions of watersheds where benefits to the coastal   
  wetlands ecosystem are not significant and direct; and (9) projects providing less 
  than 20 years of conservation benefits.                                            
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Eligible applicants include any agency or agencies designated by the Governor      
  of a coastal State. It is usually a State natural resource or fish and wildlife    
  agency. Eligible coastal States are States bordering the Great Lakes (Illinois,    
  Michigan, Minnesota, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin); States          
  bordering the Atlantic, Gulf (except Louisiana), and Pacific coasts (Alabama,      
  Alaska, California, Connecticut, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Maine,        
  Maryland, Massachusetts, Mississippi, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York,         
  North Carolina, Oregon, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Texas, Virginia, and         
  Washington); and American Samoa, Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana              
  Islands, Guam, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands.                                
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  States, Commonwealths, or territories as designated in the applicant eligibility   
  section.                                                                           
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  None.                                                                              
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  The standard application forms furnished by the Federal agency and required by     
  43 CFR Part 12, Subpart C, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants         
  and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments," must be used for       
  this program. Environmental assessment is required where actions will              
  significantly affect the human environment. This program is eligible for           
  coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs."         
  An applicant should consult the office designated as the single point of contact   
  in his or her State, Commonwealth, or territory for more information on the        
  process the State, Commonwealth, or territory requires to be followed in           
  applying for assistance, if the State, Commonwealth, or territory has selected a   
  program for review.

Application Procedure:                                                               
  Participating States will submit an Application for Federal Assistance SF-424, a   
  statement of assurances, and a narrative description of the project. Additional

  information on the application process can be found at                             
  http://www.fws.gov/coastal/CoastalGrants or http://www.grants.gov.                 
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  The Director of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service will select projects to be      
  funded based on established criteria.                                              
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Deadline for State proposals is in June 30. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service     
  will provide details to eligible State, Commonwealth, or territory partner         
  agencies prior to the deadline.                                                    
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Approximately 150 days.                                                            
Appeals:                                                                             
  Regional Directors will consider differences of opinion concerning the eligibility 
  of proposals. Final determination rests with the Director of the U.S. Fish and     
  Wildlife Service.                                                                  
Renewals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  The Federal share of project costs is not to exceed 50 percent; except that the    
  Federal share may be increased to 75 percent if a coastal State, Commonwealth,     
  or territory has established a trust fund for acquiring coastal wetlands, other    
  natural areas, or open spaces.                                                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Projects normally funded through annual proposals.                                 


                                                                                11-08
Reports:
  A Performance Report and Financial Status Report are required for each grant
  award annually within 90 days after the anniversary date and/or end of the grant.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that receive financial assistance of $500,000
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit
  conducted for that year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133. In addition, they are subject to Program
  specific audits contracted by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.
Records:
  Cost records must be maintained separately for each project. Grantees must
  retain records, accounts, and supporting documents for three years after
  submission final request for reimbursement.
Account Identification:
  14-8151-0-7-303.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $18,750,000; FY 08 est $20,575,000; and FY 09 est not
  available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $75,000 to $1,000,000; $752,598.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Projects awarded funding in the last three years have proposed to protect,
  restore, or enhance 39,000 acres of coastal wetlands.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Final regulations were published in the Federal Register July 30, 2002.
Regional or Local Office:
  See Catalog Appendix IV for Regional U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Offices.
Headquarters Office:
  The program is co-managed by the Division of Wildlife and Sport Fish
  Restoration Program and Fish and Wildlife Management and Habitat
  Restoration. U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Division of Wildlife and Sport Fish
  Restoration Program, Mail Stop FA-4020, 4401 North Fairfax Drive, Arlington,
  VA 22203. Telephone: (703) 358-2156 or Division of Fish and Wildlife
  Management and Habitat Restoration Mail Stop MAHR-720 ARL, 4401 N
  Fairfax Drive, Arlington, VA 22203. Telephone: (703) 358-2236.
Web Site Address:
  http://wsfrprograms.fws.gov and http://www.fws.gov/coastal/coastal_grants .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  15.630, Coastal Program; 15.623, North American Wetlands Conservation
  Fund; 15.632, Conservation Grants Private Stewardship for Imperiled Species.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Restore wetlands under State ownership; acquire new wetlands.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The project proposal must be submitted by State, Commonwealth, and territorial
  agencies designated by the Governor as having responsibility for acquisition of
  interests in coastal lands or waters, and for the restoration, management, or
  enhancement of coastal wetlands ecosystems. Purpose of the project must be
  consistent with the purpose and conditions of the Act. The specific criteria for
  selection are included in the rule for administering the program.
15.615 COOPERATIVE ENDANGERED SPECIES
CONSERVATION FUND
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Endangered Species Act of 1973, 16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq., as amended; Land and
  Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965, 16 U.S.C. 4601, as amended;
  Consolidated Appropriations Act 2008, P.L. 110-161.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide Federal financial assistance to any State or Territory (hereafter,
  "States"), through its appropriate State or territorial agency, to assist in the
  development of programs for the conservation of endangered and threatened
  species.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The assistance provided to the State fish and wildlife agency can include animal,
  plant, and habitat surveys; research; planning; monitoring; habitat protection,
  restoration, management, and acquisition; and public education. Assistance is
  restricted to those State agencies with which the Fish and Wildlife Service has a
  current cooperative agreement for the species involved.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Participation limited to State agencies that have a cooperative agreement with
  the Secretary of the Interior. The annual Request for Proposals announced
  through www.grants.gov and posted to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Web
  site at http://www.fws.gov/endangered/grants/section6/index.html will describe
                                                                                  475
