  the criteria that must be satisfied for a proposal to be eligible for funding.      
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  All States that have entered into a cooperative agreement with the Secretary of     
  the Interior.                                                                       
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  A current cooperative agreement(s) between the Secretary of the Interior and the    
  State Conservation agency(ies) concerning endangered and threatened species is      
  necessary. Costs will be determined in accordance with 43 CFR Part 12, Subpart      
  C,"Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative                   
  Agreements to State and Local Governments." Section 12.62 (of the common            
  rule), identifies Federal cost principles for determining allowable costs. Separate 
  agreements for animals and plants are normally made with each State's               
  responsible agency.                                                                 
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  The standard application forms furnished by the Federal agency and required by      
  43 CFR Part 12, Subpart C, "Uniform Administrative requirements for Grants          
  and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments," must be used for        
  this program. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372. An            
  applicant should consult the office or official designated as the single point of   
  contact in his or her State for more information on the process the State requires  
  to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program    
  for review.                                                                         
Application Procedure:                                                                
  An applicant must complete the Standard Form (SF)424, and the appropriate           
  Budget and Assurances forms (SF 424A and SF 424B - Non Construction; or SF          
  424C and SF 424D - Construction). The project description section of the            
  application should address the evaluation factors indentified in the annual         
  request for proposals that will be posted at www.grants.gov and to the U.S. Fish    
  and Wildlife Service website at                                                     
  http://www.fws.gov/endangered/grants/section6/index.html.                           
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Final selection is made by the Secretary of the Interior, based on                  
  recommendations by the Director or Regional Directors of the U.S. Fish and          
  Wildlife Service. Funds are obligated by an authorized signature on an award        
  agreement.                                                                          
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Variable. Information regarding deadline dates will be made available annually      
  in the request for proposals posted at www.grants.gov and at the U.S. Fish and      
  Wildlife Service Web site at                                                        
  http://www.fws.gov/endangered/grants/section6/index.html.                           
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Information regarding approval/disapproval time frames will be made available       
  annually in the request for proposals posted at www.grants.gov and at the U.S.      
  Fish and Wildlife Service Web site at                                               
  http://www.fws.gov/endangered/grants/section6/index.html.                           
Appeals:                                                                              
  Decisions can be appealed to the Fish and Wildlife Service, Chief, Endangered       
  Species Division of Consultation, Habitat Conservation Planning, Recovery, and      
  State Grants. Final determination rests with the Secretary of the Interior.         
Renewals:                                                                             
  Renewals can be made through submission of a project proposal and approval of       
  a grant award document.                                                             
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  States may receive up to 75 percent of the program costs. When two or more          
  States have a common interest in one or more endangered or threatened species       
  and enter into a joint agreement, the Federal share of the total project cost may   
  be increased to 90 percent.                                                         
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  So much of the annual appropriation allocated for obligation to any State for any   
  fiscal year as remains unobligated at the close thereof is authorized to be made    
  available to that State until the close of the succeding fiscal year. Any amount    
  allocated to any State which is unobligated at the end of the period during which   
  it is available for expenditure is authorized to be made available for expenditure  
  by the Secretary for conducting programs authorized by Section 6 of the             
  Endangered Species Act.                                                             
Reports:                                                                              
  A performance report is required for each project segment within 90 days            
  following the close of the segment.                                                 
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June          
  27, 2003, "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit organizations,"      
  non-federal entities that receive financial assistance of $500,000 or more in       
  Federal Awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that    
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal         
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted    
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                              
Records:                                                                              
  Records must be maintained for 3 years following the submission of request for

  final reimbursement.

                                                                                      
Account Identification:



476                                                                             11-08

  14-5143-0-2-302.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $81,001,000; FY 08 $73,831,000; and FY 09 est $75,501,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $500 to $24,000,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In fiscal year 2008, approximately $73,831,000 was available for projects and
  administration of the Cooperative Endangered Species Conservation Fund
  (CESCF) (Section 6 of the Endangered Species Act). Through the traditional
  Conservation Grants program, $9,845,000 was allocated regionally, based on the
  number of species covered by cooperative agreements within each U.S. Fish and
  Wildlife Service region. Habitat Conservation Planning (HCP) Land
  Acquisition Grant funding was used to fund 9 individual projects in 6 states out
  of the 19 proposals received. The Recovery Land Acquisition Grant program
  awarded 22 out of 30 projects located in 12 states and one territory. The Habitat
  Conservation Planning Assistance Grant program awarded 19 out of 20
  proposals to provide project funding in 15 states. In fiscal year 2009, the U.S.
  Fish and Wildlife Service anticipates providing approximately $10,001,000 to
  States for traditional Conservation Grants; $7,642,000 for Habitat Conservation
  Planning Assistance Grants; $36,008,000 for Habitat Conservation Land
  Acquisition Grants; and $14,186,000 for Recovery Land Acquisition Grants.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Endangered Species Act of 1973, 16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq., as amended; Land and
  Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965, 16 U.S.C. 4601, as amended; 50 CFR
  81, The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Manual Chapter 521 FW 4
  (http://www.fws.gov/policy/521fw4.html); The Wildlife and Sport Fish
  Restoration Program Toolkit
  (http://wsfrprograms.fws.gov/Subpages/ToolkitFiles/toolkit.pdf); and the annual
  request for proposals posted at www.grants.gov and at the U.S. Fish and Wildlife
  Service web site at http://www.fws.gov/endangered/grants/section6/index.html.
Regional or Local Office:
  Please visit http://www.fws.gov/endangered/grants/section6/index.html and click
  on the "How to contact us for information" link to access a list of regional
  program contacts.
Headquarters Office:
  Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior, 1849 C Street, NW., (MS-
  420 ARLSQ), Washington, DC 20240. Contact: Chief, Endangered Species:
  Division of Consultation, HCPs, Recovery and State Grants. Telephone: (703)
  358-2171. Use the same number for FTS.
Web Site Address:
  Http://www.fws.gov/endangered/grants/section6/index.html .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  15.605, Sport Fish Restoration Program; 15.611, Wildlife Restoration; 15.634,
  State Wildlife Grants.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  A variety of projects were funded through the Cooperative Endangered Species
  Conservation Fund in FY 2008, including Habitat Conservation Planning
  Assistance grants to develop Habitat Conservation Plans (HCP) across the
  country in areas ranging from the bottomland forests of Arkansas to sagebrush-
  steppe habitat in Utah. These HCPs will benefit a wide range of plants and
  animals, including the endangered Butte County meadowfoam, threatened
  Monetary spineflower, endangered Ivory-billed woodpecker and endangered
  Indian bat. Most of the HCPs will address multiple species, many of them on a
  city, county or large watershed basis. Recovery Land Acquisition grants
  awarded in fiscal year 2008 will be used to acquire and protect important forest,
  riparian, coastal, desert, wetland, and mountain areas that represent critical
  portions of species' last remaining habitats. Some of these acquisitions support
  more than one endangered or threatened species, as well as, provide important
  habitat for migratory birds, other plants, and wildlife. For example, acquisition
  of property in northern Idaho will benefit grizzly bear, mountain caribou, bull
  trout, Canada lynx, and gray wolf. The acquisition of relatively pristine coastal
  dune, coastal prairie and riparian wetlands habitats in California will enhance
  recovery of three federally listed species: Western snowy plover, Howell's
  spineflower, and Menzie's wallflower. HCP Land Acquisitions in fiscal year
  2008 will be used to help acquire vital habitat for threatened and endangered
  species ranging from red-cockaded woodpecker in Georgia to the Lake Erie
  water snake in Ohio. The land acquired under the HCP Land Acquisition
  program are purchased only from willing sellers, and are intended to
  complement but not replace the conservation responsibilities contained in the
  HCP.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Proposals for grant funding must be submitted by the State fish and wildlife
  agency. The State must have an approved cooperative agreement with the
  Secretary of the Interior which provides for sharing responsibilities for
  endangered species, prior to receiving Cooperative Endangered Species
  Conservation Fund (section 6 of the Endangered Species Act) funds. Individual
  project proposals must compete with other State submissions for funding.
15.616 CLEAN VESSEL ACT
