   (Clean Vessel Act Grant Program (CVA))                                            
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR                              
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Clean Vessel Act of 1992, Section 5604, Public Law 102-587, Subtitle F; 16         
  U.S.C. 777c, and the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation         
  Equity Act, Public Law 109-059.                                                    
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To provide funding to States, Commonwealths, and territories for the               
  construction, renovation, operation, and maintenance of sewage pumpout             
  stations, waste reception facilities and pumpout boats for recreational boaters    
  and for educational programs that inform boaters of the importance of proper       
  disposal of their sewage.                                                          
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  This program authorizes matching funds on a competitive basis for development      
  of surveys and plans for installing sewage pumpouts and dump stations for          
  recreational boats in the coastal zone of coastal States, and for the construction 
  of sewage pumpouts and dump stations for recreational boats and                    
  implementation of an educational programs. These stations must provide             
  protection of sensitive areas from recreational boat sewage. Prohibited activities 
  include law enforcement, construction/renovation of upland restroom facilities,    
  construction, renovation, operation and maintenance of sewage treatment plants,    
  and any activity that does not provide public benefits.                            
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  States, Commonwealths, and territories.                                            
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  General public, recreational boaters, municipalities, and private marinas within   
  eligible States.                                                                   
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Costs will be determined in accordance with 43 CFR Part 12, Subpart C,             
  "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements         
  to State and Local Governments." Section 12.62 (of the common rule) identifies     
  Federal cost principles for determining allowable costs.                           
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental         
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official    
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State, Commonwealth or     
  territory for more information on the process required by the State,               
  Commonwealth or territory requires when applying for assistance, if the State,     
  Commonwealth, or territory has selected the program for review.                    
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Grantees will submit a grant proposal that includes a narrative statement          
  describing the need, objectives, benefits, approach, and estimated cost for the    
  proposed grant along with the standard application forms furnished by the          
  Federal agency and required by 43 CFR Part 12, Subpart C, "Uniform                 
  Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State         
  and Local Governments," and the Fish and Wildlife Service Manual. For              
  further instructions and forms go to                                               
  http://wsfrprograms.fws.gov/subpages/toolkitfiles/toolkit.pdf or                   
  www.grants.gov.                                                                    
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  The Director of the Fish and Wildlife Service will select projects to be funded    
  based on established criteria. Regional Offices make awards to approved            
  applicants.                                                                        
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Application deadlines are typically in late December or early January. The Fish

  and Wildlife Service notifies all States, Commonwealths, and territories about     
  the grant program annually.

Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Approximately 120 days.                                                            
Appeals:                                                                             
  Regional Directors will consider differences of opinion over the eligibility of    
  proposals. Final determination rests with the Director of the U.S. Fish and        
  Wildlife Service.                                                                  
Renewals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  The Federal share of the project costs cannot exceed 75 percent.                   
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Projects normally funded through annual proposals.                                 
Reports:                                                                             
  A Performance Report and Financial Status Report are required for each grant       
  award annually within 90 days after the anniversary date and/or end of the grant.  
Audits:                                                                              
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June         
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"     
  nonfederal entities that receive financial assistance of $500,000 or more in       


                                                                                11-08
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Cost records must be maintained separately for each project. Records, accounts,
  and supporting documents must be retained for three years after submission of
  the final Financial Status Report.
Account Identification:
  14-8151-0-7-303.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $12,300,000; FY 08 est $13,250,000; and FY 09 est
  $13,630,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $10,000 to $1,500,000; $394,191.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Between 1993 and 2003, the Fish and Wildlife Service issued $87.6M in grants
  to 49 States and resulted in the construction of over 3,000 pumpouts and 1,900
  dump stations.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  50 CFR Part 85; Final Technical Guidelines published in the Federal Register
  Vol. 59, No. 47, March 10, 1994; final Grant Guidelines published in the
  Federal Register Vol. 59, No. 47, March 10, 1994; and final Pumpout Symbol
  Guidelines published in the Federal Register, Vol. 62, No. 166, August 27,
  1997.
Regional or Local Office:
  See Catalog Appendix IV for addresses of Regional Fish and Wildlife Service
  Offices.
Headquarters Office:
  Fish and Wildlife Service, Wildlife and Sport Fish Restoration Programs - Policy
  and Programs, 4401 North Fairfax Drive, FA-4020, Arlington, VA 22203.
  Contact: Policy and Programs, Telephone: (703) 358-2156.
Web Site Address:
  http://wsfrprograms.fws.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  15.605, Sport Fish Restoration Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Surveys for the number and location of operational pumpout stations/dump
  stations, for the number of recreational vessels in coastal waters with type III
  marine sanitation devices and the areas where those vessels congregate;
  development of plans for construction of stations and/or facilities; construction,
  renovation, operation and maintenance of pumpout/dump stations; and programs
  for education of recreational boaters about the problem of waste discharge from
  vessels and the location of pumpout/dump stations.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Project must be submitted by the State, Commonwealth, or territorial agency
  given responsibility for the program by the Governor of that State,
  Commonwealth, or territory. Purpose of the project must be consistent with the
  purpose and conditions of the Act. The criteria for selecting proposals for
  coastal States are based upon the extent the project will contribute to conducting
  a survey, developing a plan for installing pumpouts/dump stations, and
  constructing pumpouts/dump stations according to the approved plan. Criteria
  for selecting proposals for all States, Commonwealths, or territories are based
  upon the extent the project will contribute to public/private partnerships,
  innovative approaches to increasing availability and use of pumpouts/dump
  stations, implementation of an education program, contribution toward
  protecting sensitive areas, and lowering the ration of vessels with holding tanks
  and portable toilets to pumpouts and dump stations.
15.619 RHINOCEROS AND TIGER CONSERVATION FUND
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Rhinoceros and Tiger Conservation Act of 1994, Public Law 103-391, 108 Stat.
  4094 et seq., 16 U.S.C. 5301 et seq., as amended by the Rhino and Tiger
  Product Labeling Act of 1998, Public Law 105-312, 112 Stat. 2956 et seq., 16
  U.S.C. 5301 et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide financial assistance for projects for the effective long-term
  conservation of rhinoceros and tigers. This program supports projects that focus
  on one or more of the following areas: Applied research, including surveys and
  monitoring; enhanced compliance with treaties and laws that prohibit the take or
  trade of rhinoceros and tiger or regulate the use and management of their habitat;
  conservation education and community outreach; development and execution of
  conservation management plans; enhanced protection of at-risk populations;
  habitat conservation and management, including protected area and reserve
  management; local capacity building; reduction of human-rhinoceros and
  human-tiger conflicts; transfrontier conservation; and wildlife inspection, law
  enforcement, and forensics skills.
                                                                                   477
