  proposals requesting $50,000 or less. Additional details on the selection criteria  
  can be found in the African Elephant Notice of Funding Availability and             
  Application Instructions found on our website at                                    
  http://www.fws.gov/international/afecf/afecf.htm. Hard copies are available         
  upon request from the Division of International Conservation. Telephone: (703)      
  358-1754.                                                                           
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
15.621 ASIAN ELEPHANT CONSERVATION FUND                                               
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR                               
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Asian Elephant Conservation Act, Public Law 105- 96, 111 Stat. 2150, 16             
  U.S.C. 4261-4266.                                                                   
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To provide financial assistance to support the effective long-term conservation     
  of Asian elephants. This program provides support for projects that focus on        
  one or more of the following areas: Applied research, including surveys and         
  monitoring; enhanced compliance with treaties and laws that prohibit the take or    
  trade of Asian elephant or regulate the use and management of their habitat;        
  conservation education and community outreach; development and execution of         
  conservation management plans; enhanced protection of at-risk populations;          
  habitat conservation and management, including protected area and reserve           
  management; local capacity building; reduction of human-elephant conflicts;         
  transfrontier conservation; and wildlife inspection, law enforcement, and           
  forensics skills.                                                                   
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Project work should occur within the range of the Asian elephant, or, if work is    
  to be conducted outside of the range, the proposal should show a clear relevance    
  to Asian elephant conservation. Applied research projects should address            
  specific management needs and actions. Funds provided under this program will       
  not be used for: the purchase of firearms or ammunitions; buying of intelligence    
  information or paying informants: gathering information by persons who conceal      
  their true identity; law enforcement operations that prompt suspects to carry out   
  illegal activities so they may be arrested (entrapment); or any activity that would 
  circumvent sanctions, laws or regulations of either the U.S. or the country in      
  which the activity would occur. Funds may not be used to provide material           
  support or resources to individuals, entities, or organizations of countries that   
  have been identified by the U.S. Department of State as state sponsors of           
  terrorism. The countries currently identified are: Cuba, Iran, North Korea,         
  Sudan, and Syria. This program is administered in compliance with the Federal       
  Grants and Cooperative Agreement Act of 1977, as amended. These funds may           
  not be used towards training U.S. Federal Government personnel.                     
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Applications may be submitted by any Asian government agency responsible for        
  Asian elephant conservation and protection, and any other organization or           
  individual with demonstrated experience in Asian elephant conservation.             
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Any Asian government agency responsible for Asian elephant conservation and         
  protection, and any other organization or individual with demonstrated              
  experience in Asian elephant conservation.                                          
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  None.                                                                               
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                      
Application Procedure:                                                                
  The program announcement and application instructions for this program can be       
  found at Grants.gov website http://www.grants.gov/search/basic.do. The Notice       
  of Funding Availability and Application Instructions are also located on this       
  program's website at http://www.fws.gov/international/asecf/asep.htm. If you are    
  unable to access the Internet, hard copies are available upon request from the      
  Branch of Near East, South Asia & Africa, Division of International                 
  Conservation, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 4401 N. Fairfax Drive, Room 730,      
  Arlington, Virginia 22203. A proposal will not be considered complete if all        
  required elements are not submitted as instructed. U.S. applicants must submit      
  (among other elements) a complete, signed Standard Form 424 "Application for        
  Federal Assistance."                                                                
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Projects are reviewed and competitively selected for funding based on               
  established criteria contained in the Asian Elephant Conservation Act (16 USC       
  4261 4266). Review criteria can be found in the application information at          
  http://www.fws.gov/international/asecf/asep.htm. Once a proposal has been           
  selected for funding an Assistance Award between the Fish and Wildlife Service      
  and the Recipient is drafted by the Division of International Conservation. The     
  draft Award is then submitted to the Division of Contracting and Facilities         
  Management (CFM) where it is executed by a FWS Contracting Officer. Fully           
  executed Awards are sent to the Recipient either electronically or through the      
  mail. The Division of International Conservation then administers all other         


480                                                                             11-08

  aspects of the Assistance Award.
Deadlines:
  This program has two annual deadlines. The first deadline is November 1 each
  year. The second deadline is April 1 each year.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Decisions on funding of project proposals are made within 180 days after receipt
  of the project proposal.
Appeals:
  No procedure for appeals.
Renewals:
  None. However; at the discretion of the Division of International Conservation,
  active awards can be modified, e.g., time extensions or budget changes.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  To the extent possible, grant funds are matched by nonfederal funds. This
  program has no statutory formula. In determining whether to approve project
  proposals, preference is given to projects for which matching funds are
  available.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Awarded funds must be spent during the performance period that is approved for
  each Assistance Award, and in accordance with program financial and
  performance reporting procedures.
Reports:
  Progress and final reports are due in accordance with terms and conditions
  established in the Assistance Award. Complete reporting requirements can be
  found at this program's web page at
  http://www.fws.gov/international/asecf/asep.htm. For financial reporting,
  Domestic Recipients with no program income to report shall use Standard Form
  269a. Domestic recipients with program income to report shall use Standard
  Form 269. Non-domestic Recipients shall submit a financial status report that
  follows the same format of the original project proposal budget table, itemizes
  expenditures for the reporting period and describes any deviations from the
  approved project budget.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more a year
  in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for
  that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Recipients will maintain records in accordance with the provisions of 43 CFR
  Part 12, Subpart C, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and
  Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments" and 43 CFR Part 12,
  Subpart F, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Agreements
  With Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other Nonprofit
  Organizations."
Account Identification:
  14-1652-0-1-303.
Obligations:
  (Assistance Awards) FY 07 $1,299,000; FY 08 est $1,378,000; and FY 09 est
  $890,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Variable amounts. Due to the limited funding available and the desire to support
  diverse projects, preference will be given to proposals requesting $50,000 or
  less. Higher amounts may be requested with appropriate justification.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY 2007 the Service funded 27 Asian elephant conservation projects. A
  summary of each of those projects can be found at the program's webpage at
  http://www.fws.gov/international/asecf/asep.htm.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Awards will be administered in conformance with the "Assistance Award
  Guidelines" established by the Division of International Conservation, which
  uses as its sources all applicable award terms and conditions found at
  http://www.doi.gov/pam/TermsandConditions.html. The "Assistance Award
  Guidelines" can be found on-line at
  http://www.fws.gov/international/asecf/asep.htm or in hard copy by contacting
  the Division of International Conservation at (703) 358-1754.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior. Contact: Chief, Division
  of International Conservation, Room 100, 4401 N. Fairfax Drive, Arlington,
  Virginia 22203. Telephone: (703) 358-1754. Fax: (703) 358-2115.
  MSCF_AsianElephant@fws.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.fws.gov/international/grants/grants.html.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  15.619, Rhinoceros and Tiger Conservation Fund; 15.620, African Elephant
  Conservation Fund; 15.629, Great Apes Conservation Fund; 15.645, Marine
