  Turtle Conservation Fund.                                                           
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Annual summaries of the projects funded under this program can be found at          
  http://www.fws.gov/international/asecf/asep.htm. Hard copies of this                
  information are available upon request from the Division of International           
  Conservation at (703) 358-1754.                                                     
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Proposals will be reviewed on the basis of criteria developed from the Asian        
  Elephant Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 4261-4266). Due to the limited funding         
  available and the desire to support diverse projects, preference will be given to   
  proposals requesting $50,000 or less. Additional details on the selection criteria  
  can be found in the Asian Elephant Notice of Funding Availability and Hard          
  copies are available upon request from the Division of International                
  Conservation at (703) 358-1754.                                                     
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
15.622 SPORTFISHING AND BOATING SAFETY ACT                                            
   (Boating Infrastructure Grant Program)                                             
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR                               
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Sportfishing and Boating Safety Act, Title VII, Subtitle D, Section 7404, Public    
  Law 105-178, 16 U.S.C. 777g-l, and the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient       
  Transportation Equity Act, Public Law 109-059.                                      
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  Provides funds for States to construct, renovate, and maintain tie-up facilities for
  transient, recreational boats 26 feet or more in length.                            
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  This program authorizes matching funds on a competitive basis for constructing,     
  renovating, or maintaining tie-up facilities for transient, recreational boats 26   
  feet or more in length and to produce and distribute information and educational    
  materials about the program. Prohibited activities include; law enforcement,        
  construct, renovate, or maintain tie up facilities for boats less than 26 feet in   
  length and any activity that does not provide public benefits.                      
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Available to all States, Commonwealths, and territories.                            
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  General Public, specifically owners and/or users of transient, recreational boats   
  more than 26 feet in length, and municipalities and private marinas within those    
  eligible States, Commonwealths, and territories.                                    
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Costs will be determined in accordance with 43 CFR Part 12, Subpart C,              
  "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements          
  to State and Local Governments." Section 12.62 (of the common rule) identifies      
  Federal cost principles for determining allowable costs.                            
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental          
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official     
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State, Commonwealth, or     
  territory for more information on the process the State, Commonwealth, or           
  territory requires when applying for assistance, if the State, Commonwealth, or     
  territory selected the program for review.                                          
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Grantees will submit a grant proposal that includes a narrative statement           
  describing the need, objectives, benefits, approach, and estimated cost for the     
  proposed grant along with the standard application forms furnished by the           
  Federal agency and required by 43 CFR Part 12, Subpart C, "Uniform                  
  Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State          
  and Local Governments," must be used. For further instructions and forms go to      
  http://wsfrprograms.fws.gov/subpages/toolkitfiles/toolkit.pdf or

  www.grants.gov.                                                                     
Award Procedure:

  The Director of the Fish and Wildlife Service will select projects for funding      
  based on established criteria. Regional Offices make awards to approved             
  applicants.

Deadlines:                                                                            
  50 CFR 86.50 provides the guidelines for this program.                              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Approximately 120 days.                                                             
Appeals:                                                                              
  Regional Directors will consider differences of opinion concerning the eligibility  
  of proposals. Final determination rests with the Director of the U.S. Fish and      
  Wildlife Service.                                                                   
Renewals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  The Federal share of the project costs cannot exceed 75 percent.                    


                                                                                 11-08
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Projects are normally funded through annual proposals.
Reports:
  A Performance Report and Financial Status Report are required for each grant
  award annually within 90 days after the anniversary date and/or end of the grant.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that receive financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Cost records must be maintained separately for each grant. Records, accounts,
  and supporting documents must be retained for three years after final submission
  of the final Financial Status Report.
Account Identification:
  14-8151-0-7-303.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $12,200,000; FY 08 est $13,400,000; and FY 09 est
  $17,100,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Tier 1 grants average at $100,000; Tier 2 range from $100,000 to $1,500,000;
  $500,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service has awarded $72,000,000 for improving
  boating infrastructure facilities throughout the States, Commonwealth, and
  territories.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  50 CFR Part 86.
Regional or Local Office:
  See Catalog Appendix IV for addresses of Regional Fish and Wildlife Service
  Offices.
Headquarters Office:
  Fish and Wildlife Service, Wildlife and Sport Fish Restoration Programs - Policy
  and Programs, 4401 North Fairfax Drive, FA-4020, Arlington, VA 22203.
  Telephone: (703) 358-2156.
Web Site Address:
  http://wsfrprograms.fws.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  15.605, Sport Fish Restoration Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Examples of funded projects include the construction of floating docks,
  breakwaters, and fuel docks for transient boats. Other examples include the
  construction of associated support infrastructure such as restrooms and showers
  for transient boaters.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The designated State, Commonwealth, or territorial agency must submit
  proposals to partcipate in this program. The purpose of these projects must be
  consistent with the purpose and conditions of the Act. The criteria for selecting
  proposals are based upon the extent the project will contribute to constructing
  tie-up facilities according to the State's, Commonwealth's, or territory's approved
  plan; contribute to public/private partnerships; innovative approaches to
  increasing availability and use of tie-up facilities; that include private, local, or
  other State, Commonwealth, or territorial funds in addition to the 25 percent
  match; that are cost efficient; provide a significant link to prominent destination
  way points such as those near cultural or natural sites; provide access to
  recreational, historic, cultural, natural, or scenic opportunities of local, regional,
  or national significance; that provide significant economic impacts to a
  community; and include multistate efforts that result in coordinating location of
  tie-up facilities.
15.623 NORTH AMERICAN WETLANDS CONSERVATION
FUND
   (NAWCF)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  North American Wetlands Conservation Act, Public Law 101-233, as amended,
  16 U.S.C. 4401.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide grant funds for wetlands conservation projects in the United States,
  Canada, and Mexico.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds may be used to acquire real property interest in lands or waters, including
                                                                                      481
