  water rights. Funds may also be used to restore, manage, and/or enhance          
  wetland ecosystems and other habitat for migratory birds and other fish and      
  wildlife. Projects must provide long-term conservation for wetlands-associated   
  migratory birds and other wetlands-associated wildlife. Coastal Wetlands         
  Planning, Protection and Restoration act-derived funds eligible for NAWCA        
  projects may be used only in U.S. coastal wetlands ecosystems. More specific     
  restrictions are outlined on the NAWCA grants information and instructions       
  website.                                                                         
Applicant Eligibility:                                                             
  Available to private or public organizations or to individuals who have          
  developed partnerships to carry out wetlands conservation projects in the U.S.,  
  Canada, and Mexico.                                                              
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                           
  Available to any private or public organization or individual.                   
Credentials/Documentation:                                                         
  None.                                                                            
Preapplication Coordination:                                                       
  A grant announcement and application instructions are published annually on      
  grants.gov and the FWS website (see below). Prospective applicants may consult   
  with staff on questions related to the details of match eligibility, project     
  feasibility, overhead, cost levels, etc. Associated materials and guidlines are  
  posted on the FWS website and are available in printed form upon request. This   
  program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                              
Application Procedure:                                                             
  Complete program information and application instruction can be found on the     
  Division of Bird Habitat Conservation (DBHC) website, at                         
  http://www.fws.gov/birdhabitat/Grants/NAWCA, or can be accessed through          
  grants.gov. Grant applications, including Standard Form 424 Application for      
  Federal Assistance, are submitted directly to the Coordinator, North American    
  Wetlands Conservation Council, Division of Habitat Conservation, U.S. Fish       
  and Wildlife Service, Mail Stop MBSP 4075, 4401 North Fairfax Drive,             
  Arlington, VA 22203; 703-358-1784.                                               
Award Procedure:                                                                   
  Applications are screened by the Coordinator's staff, and further reviewed and   
  ranked by the North American Wetlands Conservation Council (Council) Staff       
  and North American Waterfowl Management Plan Joint Venture Coordinators.         
  Site visits are conducted as needed. Grant proposals are recommended for         
  approvalby the Council to the Migratory Bird Conservation Commission             
  (Commission). The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service conductsa National              
  Environmental Policy Act and National Historic Preservation Act review of        
  theprojects that the Council selects to recommend to the Commission. The         
  Council selects proposals in March, July, and December that are recommended      
  to the Commission for final funding approval in September, March, and June       
  respectively. The grant is administered by FWS DBHC.                             
Deadlines:                                                                         
  U.S. Standard grants are due in March and July; specific proposal due dates are  
  published on www.grants.gov and on the NAWCA website.

Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                
  The range of time from proposal submission to the Commission meeting for

  standard grants is 7 to 11 months. Small grants approvals are usually known in 4 
  months.                                                                          
Appeals:                                                                           
  None. Proposals not funded may be resubmitted.                                   
Renewals:                                                                          
  Proposals are funded on a project-specific basis. Requests for future funding    
  must complete with other requests for project funding. A grant agreement can be  
  modified or extended at the discretion of the Division of Bird Habitat           
  Conservation.                                                                    
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                 
  Proposals must have at least a 1:1 match of nonfederal U.S. dollars; although    
  nonfederal dollars for Mexico proposals do not have to be U.S. dollars.          
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                             
  Grant funds should be spent within the 1-2 year grant period, although the grant 
  period can be extended for reasonable cause.                                     
Reports:                                                                           
  Progress and final reports must be submitted in accordance with the terms and    
  conditions of the grant agreement. Final reports must be filed with the Division 
  of Bird Habitat Conservation within 90 days of the end of the project            
  termination date.                                                                
Audits:                                                                            
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June       
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit                  
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit         
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a    
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, 
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.                                           
Records:                                                                           
  The Recipient shall maintain a complete, detailed accounting system to report    
  expenditures of grant funds and a detailed accounting of receipts and            


482                                                                          11-08

  expenditures of nonfederal matching dollars or value of services. Records,
  accounts, and supporting documents must be retained for 3 years after
  submission for final request of reimbursement.
Account Identification:
  14-5241-0-2-303.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $67,079,040; FY 08 est $80,144,640; and FY 09 est not
  available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Range is $0 to $75,000 for Small Grants; over $75,000 to $1,000,000 for U.S.
  Standard Grants. Average award is approximately $42,000 and $710,000 for
  Small Grants and U.S. Standard Grants, respectively.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  From September 1990 through September 2007, more than 3,547 partners have
  been involved in 1,697 Standard and Small Grant Programs' projects combined.
  More than $836.8 million in Act grants has leveraged some $1.6 billion in
  matching funds and $946 million in nonmatching funds to affect approximately
  23.8 million acres of wetlands and associated uplands accross the continent.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  U.S. Standard Grants Application Instructions; Small Grants Instructions; U.S.
  Grant Administration Standards; 43 CFR Part 12 and 49 CFR Part 24.
Regional or Local Office:
  Regional Office or Local Office For additional program information, see
  Appendix IV for addresses of USFWS Regional Offices.
Headquarters Office:
  Headquarters Office Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior,
  Washington, DC 20240. Contact: Chief, Division of Bird Habitat Conservation,
  MBSP 4075, 4401 N. Fairfax Drive, Arlington, Virginia 22203. Telephone:
  (703) 358-1784.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.fws.gov/birdhabitat/Grants/NAWCA
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  15.605, Sport Fish Restoration Program; 15.611, Wildlife Restoration; 15.614,
  Coastal Wetlands Planning, Protection and Restoration Act; 15.635, Neotropical
  Migratory Bird Conservation.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Wetlands conservation projects funded by NAWCA acquire, restore and enhance
  wetlands and wetlands ecosystems. Summaries of some funded projects are
  available on the website.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The Council selects proposals based on factors given in Section 5 of the North
  American Wetlands Conservation Act, results of site visits, available funds and
  other factors deemed important to meeting Act objectives. U.S. standard and
  small grant proposals are additionally evaluated against answers to Technical
  Assessment Questions taken from Section 5 of the Act and annually published
  on the web site in application instructions.
15.625 WILDLIFE CONSERVATION AND RESTORATION
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Department of Transportation and Related Agencies (i.e. Commerce, Justice,
  State) Appropriations Act of 2001, Public Law 106-553, Title IX, Sec. 901; 16
  U.S.C. 669-669i.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide financial to States, Commonwealths and territories under the
  Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act to plan and implement projects for
  benefit of a diverse array of wildlife and associated habitats, including species
  that are not hunted or fished; and to fulfill unmet needs of wildlife within the
  States, Commonwealths and territories, including wildlife education and
  recreation activities.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Approved activities include those, which plan, enhance, and implement
  programs for wildlife and their habitats, including species that are not hunted or
  fished; States, Commonwealths and territories must pass laws for the
  conservation of wildlife, which include a prohibition against diversion of license
  fees paid by hunters for purposes other than the administration of the State,
  Commonwealth, and territorial fish and wildlife agencies. No funds must be
  used for projects that oppose legal hunting. Federal share may not exceed 75
  percent of total funding.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Participation limited to State, Commonwealth, or territorial fish and wildlife
  agencies with lead management responsibility for fish and wildlife resources.
  States, Commonwealths, and territories must pass laws (assent legislation) for
  the conservation of wildlife, which include a prohibition against diversion of
  license fees paid by hunters for purposes other than the administration of the
  State, Commonwealth, or territorial fish and wildlife agency. In addition, the
