  States, Commonwealths, and territories must have an approved comprehensive           
  plan as described by the Appropriations Act.                                         
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  General Public (While direct participation is limited to fish and wildlife           
  agencies, the public will ultimately benefit form these wildlife conservation        
  measures.)                                                                           
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Only the agency that has lead management responsibility for fish and wildlife        
  resources with the State, Commonwealth, or territory may apply for these grants.     
   The State, Commonwealth, or territory must have an approved Comprehensive           
  Wildlife Conservation Plan on file to receive grant funds. The Plan must             
  consider the broad range of State, Commonwealth, or territory agencies' wildlife     
  and associated habitats, with appropriate policy placed on those species of          
  greatest conservation need. States, Commonwealths, or territories must notify        
  the Secretary of the desire to participate annually. The State, Commonwealth, or     
  territorial fish and wildlife agency Director must furnish a certification of the    
  number of paid hunting-license holders. Allowable costs are determined in            
  accordance with 43 CFR Part 12, Subpart C, "Uniform Administrative                   
  Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local                
  Governments."                                                                        
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental           
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official      
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State, Commonwealth, or      
  territory for more information on the process the State, Commonwealth or             
  territory when applying for assistance, if the State, Commonwealth, or territory     
  has selected a program for review.                                                   
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Grantee may document initial program by submission of a satisfactory                 
  Comprehensive Wildlife Conservation Plan. Grantees will submit a grant               
  proposal that includes a narrative statement describing the need, objectives,        
  benefits, approach, and estimated cost for the proposed grant along with the         
  standard application forms furnished by the Federal agency and required by 43        
  CFR Part 12, Subpart C "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and           
  Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments" and the Fish and              
  Wildlife Service Manual. For further instructions and forms go to                    
  http://wsfrprograms.fws.gov/subpages/toolkitfiles/toolkit.pdf or                     
  www.grants.gov.                                                                      
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  The Regional Director of the Fish and Wildlife Service or his designee approves      
  or disapproves proposed projects. Regional offices are responsible for               
  notification of grant approval to the grantee.                                       
Deadlines:                                                                             
  None.                                                                                
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Approximately 30 days.                                                               
Appeals:                                                                               
  Regional Directors will consider differences of opinion concerning the eligibility   
  of proposals. Final determination rests with the Director of the Fish and            
  Wildlife Service.                                                                    
Renewals:                                                                              
  Grantees may renew projects on an annual basis if justified and if funds are         
  available.                                                                           
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  This program is required by statue to provide funds using a specified formula.       
  The authorizing Appropriation Act of states: (1) The Secretary of the Interior       
  shall make the following apportionment from the Wildlife Conservation and            
  Restoration Account: (A) to the District of Columbia and to the                      
  Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, each a sum equal to not more than one-half of 1         
  percent thereof; (B) to Guam, American Samoa, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and the       
  Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, each a sum equal to not more           
  than one-fourth of 1 percent thereof; (2) (A) The Secretary of the Interior, after   
  making the apportionment under paragraph (a), must apportion the remaining           
  amount in the Wildlife Conservation and Restoration Account for each fiscal          
  year among the States in the following manner: (i) one-third of which is based       
  on the ratio to which the land area of such State bears to the total land area of all
  such States; and (ii) two-thirds of which is based on the ratio to which the         
  population of such State bears to the total population of all such States. (B) The   
  amounts apportioned under this paragraph must be adjusted equitably so that no       
  such State shall be apportioned a sum which is less than one percent of the          
  amount available for apportionment under this paragraph for any fiscal year or       
  more than 5 percent of such amount. The State, Commonwealth, or territory            
  must have an approved Comprehensive Wildlife Conservation Plan on file to            
  receive grant funds. The Federal share of funded programs or projects may not        
  exceed 75 percent. More discussion on Matching and Cost-sharing                      
  requirements can be found in 43 CFR 12.64 and 43 CFR 12.923.

Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Not applicable.

Reports:                                                                               
  A Performance Report and Financial Status Report are required for each grant         


                                                                                  11-08
  award annually within 90 days after the anniversary date and/or end of the grant.
Audits:
  For awards made under this Program, grantees and subgrantees are responsible
  for obtaining audits in accordance with the Single Audit Act Amendments of
  1996, 31 U.S.C. 7501 et seq. and OMB Circular No. A-133. In accordance with
  the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June 27, 2003), "Audits of
  States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations," nonfederal entities
  that expend financial assistance of $300,000 or more in Federal awards will have
  a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year. Non-federal entities
  that expend less than $300,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal
  audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Cost records must be maintained separately for each grant. Records, accounts,
  and supporting documents must be retained for three years after submission of
  the final Financial Status Report.
Account Identification:
  14-5029-0-2-303.
Obligations:
  (Conservation Grants) FY 07 $0; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not
  available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Based on statutory formula - $121,000 to $2,425,000; average $904,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Funding for this program was for one year only, FY 2002. This program closely
  parallels the State Wildlife Grant program under CFDA 15.634, which has
  nearly the same goals and objectives. For the purposes of accomplishments, the
  WCRP is combined with State Wildlife Grants. Together these two programs
  have appropriated to States, Commonwealths, and territories approximately
  $380 million for use in restoring and protecting species of greatest concern.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  50 CFR 80; Fish and Wildlife Service Manual; Federal Aid in Fish and Wildlife
  Restoration Annual Report (limited number available at no cost).
Regional or Local Office:
  See Appendix IV for addresses of Regional Fish and Wildlife Service Offices.
Headquarters Office:
  Fish and Wildlife Service, Wildlife and Sport Fish Restoration Programs - Policy
  and Programs, 4401 North Fairfax Drive, FA-4020, Arlington, VA 22203.
  Contact: Policy and Programs, Telephone: (703) 358-2156.
Web Site Address:
  http://wsfrprograms.fws.gov/.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  15.605, Sport Fish Restoration Program; 15.608, Fish and Wildlife Management
  Assistance; 15.611, Wildlife Restoration; 15.615, Cooperative Endangered
  Species Conservation Fund.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  New Jersey Grassland Habitat Project - The grant restored early successional
  habits on selected wildlife management areas in New Jersey. Within three years,
  approximately 715 acres of scrub-shrub, native warm-season grasslands, and
  savanna developed, largely on existing fallow agricultural lands. A variety of
  wildlife species benefited from this working, including one Federal candidate
  species (Argos skipper), at least 9 State-listed species (red-headed woodpecker,
  grasshopper, savanna, Henslow's and vesper sparrows; upland sandpiper,
  bobolink, frosted elfin, and loggerhead shrike), three specials of special concern
  (Eastern meadowlark, American kestrel, and yellow-breasted chat); and four
  important game species (bobwhite quail, cottontail rabbit, woodcock, and wild
  turkey). Oregon East Alton Baker Park Habitat Restoration - This grant restored
  degraded habitats (Willamette River Riparian Forest Upland Prairie) on 237
  acres in East Alton Baker Park in Eugene, OR. It protected and enhanced
  wildlife habitat and provided accessible, high quality public educational
  opportunities. The habitat enhancement benefited a number of species of
  concern, including Spring Chinook Salmon, Western Meadowlark, Western
  Pond Turtles, Townsend big-eared bats, and many others. Reintroduction of
  Osprey into Suitable Sites along the Missouri River in South Dakota - This grant
  evaluated the first year of hatching of osprey chicks at suitable sites along the
  Missouri River. The work contributes toward increasing the numbers of nesting
  new pairs and distribution of nesting ospreys in South Dakota. The long-term
  goal is restoration of this species to the point that it can be removed from the
  State list of threatened species.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The State, Commonwealth, or territorial agency having lead responsibility for
  the management of the State's, Commonwealth's, or territorial's wildlife
  resources must submit the projects. The State, Commonwealth, or territorial
  agnecy selects those projects submitted for funding under the program. If
  approved, projects must meet the basic criteria outlined in the regulations and
  the Fish and Wildlife Service Manual.
15.626 HUNTER EDUCATION AND SAFETY PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
                                                                                  483
