AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act of 1937, 50 Stat. 917 as amended;       
  16 U.S.C. 669h-l.                                                                  
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To provide Section 10 funds for the enhancement of hunter, bow, and archery        
  education programs and the enhancement or construction of firearm shooting         
  ranges and archery ranges.                                                         
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Formula Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Section 10 funds supplement Section 4(c) Hunter Education funds, thereby           
  enhancing Hunter Education. The Congressional Record affirms that Section 10       
  funds should be used to: hire additional staff for Hunter Education programs;      
  provide additional materials for Hunter Education courses; enhance and             
  modernize materials as needed; investigate new technologies and delivery           
  methods; develop and evaluate home study courses; create advanced hunter           
  education courses; perform programmatic evaluations and monitoring of hunter       
  education classes; and improve and enhance training for Hunter Education           
  instructors. This policy is consistent with what Congress intended when they       
  passed the Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act. It provides States,         
  Commonwealths and territories with flexibility, while enhancing hunting and        
  shooting activities and projects. Again, these funds may be used for the           
  enhancement of hunter education programs and construction of ranges until the      
  State, Commonwealth, or territory obligates all of their Section 4(c) Hunter       
  Education funds apportioned to them for hunter education and safety as stated in   
  16 U.S.C. 669c. Ineligible activities include law enforcement and public           
  relation.                                                                          
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Participation is limited to State, Commonwealth or territorial agencies with lead  
  management responsibility for fish and wildlife resources. States,                 
  Commonwealths, and territories must pass laws (assent legislation) for the         
  conservation of wildlife which include a prohibition against diversion of license  
  fees paid by hunters for purposes other than the administration of the State,      
  Commonwealth, or territorial fish and wildlife agency.                             
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  General Public (While direct participation is limited to fish and wildlife         
  agencies, the general public will ultimately benefit from these hunter safety      
  programs.)                                                                         
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  States, Commonwealths, or territories must notify the Secretary the desire to      
  participate annually. The State, Commonwealth, or territorial fish and wildlife    
  Director must furnish a certification of the number of paid hunting-license        
  holders. Allowable costs are determined in accordance with 43 CFR Part 12,         
  Subpart C, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative         
  Agreements to State and Local Governments."                                        
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental         
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official    
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State, Commonwealth or     
  territory for more information on the process required by the State,               
  Commonwealth, or territory requires when applying for assistance, if the State,    
  Commonwealth, or territory selected a program for review.                          
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Grantees will submit a grant proposal that includes a narrative statement          
  describing the need, objectives, benefits, approach, and estimated cost for the    
  proposed grant along with the standard application forms furnished by the          
  Federal agency and required by 43 CFR Part 12, Subpart C, "Uniform                 
  Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State         
  and Local Governments" and the Fish and Wildlife Service Manual. For further       
  instructions and forms go to                                                       
  http://wsfrprograms.fws.gov/subpages/toolkitfiles/toolkit.pdf or                   
  www.grants.gov.                                                                    
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  The Regional Director of the Fish and Wildlife Service or his or her designee      
  approves or disapproves proposed grants. Regional Offices are responsible for      
  notification of grant approval to the grantee.                                     
Deadlines:                                                                           
  None.                                                                              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Approximately 30 days.                                                             
Appeals:                                                                             
  Regional Directors will consider the differences of opinion about eligibility of   
  proposals. Final determination rests with the Director of the U.S. Fish and        
  Wildlife Service.                                                                  
Renewals:                                                                            
  Grantees may renew projects on an annual basis if justified and if funds are       
  available.                                                                         
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  One-half of the 11 percent manufacturer's excise tax on bows, arrows, and          
  archery equipment and 10 percent manufacturer's excise tax on handguns,            


484                                                                            11-08

  pistols, and revolvers makeup the funding for the Hunter Education program.
  The other one-half of the manufacturer's excise tax are for wildlife restoration
  purposes including the 11 percent manufacturer's excise tax on firearms and
  ammo. Formula-based apportionment; based on State population compared to
  the total U.S. populations using last census figures; No State may receive more
  than 3 percent on less than 1 percent of the total Hunter Education funds
  apportioned; and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, U.S. Virgin Islands,
  American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of Northern Mariana Islands receive
  up to one-sixth of 1 percent of the total apportionment. Statistical factors used
  for fund allocation are (1) States' percentage share of land area from the 2000
  Census of Population; (2) States' percentage share of the number paid hunting
  license holders, from the source annually certified by each State's fish and
  wildlife agency; (3) States' percentage share of population (hunter education)
  from the source 2000 Census of Population. Statistical factors used for
  eligibility do not apply for this program. States may be reimbursed up to 75
  percent of the total project cost. Commonwealths of Puerto Rico and the
  Northern Mariana Islands, the territories of Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and
  the American Samoa must not exceed 25 percent and may be waived at the
  discretion of the Regional Director. The non-Federal share could come from
  license fees paid by hunters. Matching and cost-sharing requirements are
  discussed in 50 CFR 80.12, 43 CFR 12.64 and 43 CFR 12.923.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Apportioned funds are available for obligation for a period of one year. Balances
  remaining un-obligated after one year are returned to be reapportioned to States,
  Commonwealths, and territories that obligate all of the funds apportioned to
  them under section 4(c) and section 10 of the Pittman-Robertson Wildlife
  Restoration Act for hunter safety related activities. For more information, see the
  Hunter Education Guide at
  http://wsfrprograms.fws.gov/subpages/toolkitfiles/toolkit.pdf.
Reports:
  A Performance Report and Financial Status Report SF-269 are required for each
  grant or grant proposals annually within 90 days after the anniversary date or
  end of the grant.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that receive financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Cost records must be maintained separately for each grant. Records, accounts,
  and supporting documents must be retained for three years after submission of
  the final Financial Status Report.
Account Identification:
  14-5029-0-2-303.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $8,000,000; FY 08 $8,000,000; and FY 09 est $8,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $13,300 to $240,000; $145,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  About $8 million is available for 2008 to help States, Commonwealths, and
  territories enhance their Hunter Education and Safety program. Specific 2006
  accomplishments funded by Section 10 Hunter Education and Safety include
  enhancements to 284 shooting ranges, education facilities, etc.; construction of
  six shooting ranges; funding to the National Archery in the Schools program
  accross the United States; and operation and maintenance of 56 shooting ranges.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  50 CFR 80, Hunter Education Guide, Fish and Wildlife Service Manual,
  matching and cost-sharing requirements are discussed in 50 CFR 80.12, 43 CFR
  12.64, and 43 CFR 12.923. Applicants can visit these regulations and
  guidelines at http://wsfrporgrams.fws.gov/subpages/toolkitfiles/toolkit.pdf.
Regional or Local Office:
  See Catalog Appendix IV for addresses of Regional Fish and Wildlife Service
  Offices.
Headquarters Office:
  Fish and Wildlife Service, Wildlife and Sport Fish Restoration Programs - Policy
  and Programs, 4401 North Fairfax Drive, FA-4020, Arlington, VA 22203.
  Contact: Policy and Programs, Telephone: (703) 358-2156.
Web Site Address:
  http://wsfrprograms.fws.gov/.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  15.605, Sport Fish Restoration Program; 15.615, Cooperative Endangered
  Species Conservation Fund.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Projects funded by Section 10 Hunter Education Program could include bow
  hunter education, Archery in the Schools Program, Becoming an Outdoor
  Woman, Youth Hunter Mentoring Program, Muzzleloader Training Program,
  and construction or renovation of recreational shooting and archery ranges.
