  Conservation at (703) 358-1754.                                                   
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
15.630 COASTAL PROGRAM                                                              
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     
  FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                      
  Fish and Wildlife Act of 1956,16 U.S.C. 742a-c, 747e-742j; Fish and Wildlife      
  Coordination Act of 1958, 16 U.S.C. 661 667(e).                                   
OBJECTIVES:                                                                         
  To provide technical and financial assistance via partnerships to identify,       
  protect, and restore or improve habitats in priority coastal areas for fish and   
  wildlife.                                                                         
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                
  Cooperative Agreements.                                                           
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                          
  Funds are used for habitat assessments, protection and restoration of coastal     
  habitats on private or public lands. The Coastal Program is geographically        
  limited to 22 high priority areas. These are Gulf of Maine, Southern New          
  England/New York Bight, Delaware Bay, Chesapeake Bay, Albemarle/Pamlico           
  Sound, South Carolina Coast, South Florida/Everglades, Panama City, Florida,      
  Florida Tampa Bay, the Caribbean, Texas Coast (Upper), Texas Coast                
  (Southern), Great Lakes (Northern), Great Lakes (Southern), San Diego Bay,        
  San Francisco Bay, Humboldt Bay, California, Oregon Coast, Puget Sound,           
  Alaska (South East), Alaska (South Central), and the Pacific Islands.             
Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  Federal, State, interstate and intrastate agencies; local and tribal governments; 
  public nonprofit institutes and organizations (such as conservation               
  organizations, watershed councils, land trusts, schools and institutions of higher
  learning); U.S. territories and possessions; private landowners including         
  individuals and businesses.                                                       
Beneficiary Eligibility:

  Federal, State, interstate and intrastate agencies; local and tribal governments; 
  public nonprofit institutes and organizations (such as conservation

  organizations, watershed councils, land trusts, schools and institutions of higher
  learning); U.S. territories and possessions; private landowners including         
  individuals and businesses.                                                       
                                                                                    
Credentials/Documentation:

  None.                                                                             
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                    
Application Procedure:                                                              
  The local Coastal Program Coordinator works with cooperators to design a          
  project that will benefit Federal trust resources. Contact the appropriate Coastal
  Program Office for application procedures. Information is also available on       
  http://www.grants.gov/.                                                           
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  After a project has been designed and the cost calculated, the local Coastal      
  Program coordinator will be able to inform the respective cooperator(s) whether   
  or not the Service will provide financial assistance. When the cooperator has     
  signed a cooperative agreement work can begin on the project. The Service         
  reimburses the landowner after the project is completed.                          
Deadlines:                                                                          
  None.                                                                             
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  None.                                                                             
Appeals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                             
Renewals:                                                                           
  None. However, project partners may request additional projects on their lands.   
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  This program has no statutory formula.                                            
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  Projects normally funded through annual segments.                                 
Reports:                                                                            
  Reporting requirements are stated in each cooperative agreement. Contact the      
  appropriate Coastal Program Office for additional information and specific        
  requirements.                                                                     
Audits:                                                                             
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of           
  States, Local Governments and Nonprofit Organizations," nonfederal entities       
  that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have  
  a single or program- specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities  
  that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal   
  audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.          
Records:                                                                            
  Accomplishments are recorded for each project in the Habitat Information          
  Tracking System (HabITS). HabITS tracks habitat improvement                       
  accomplishments and program-specific technical assistance workloads               
  associated with the Coastal Program and Partners for Fish and Wildlife Program.   
Account Identification:                                                             


                                                                               11-08
  14-1611-0-1-303.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $12,984,000; FY 08 $12,900,000; and FY 09 est $12,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $5,000 to $50,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In Fiscal Year 2007, the Coastal Program worked with partners to protect an
  estimated 11,600 acres of wetlands, 7,800 acres of uplands, and 19 miles of
  streams/shoreline; and restore an estimated 41,700 acres of wetlands, 13,300
  acres of uplands, and 120 miles of streams/shoreline; and remove 11 barriers to
  fish passage. This was accomplished through 191 partnership agreements.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  None.
Regional or Local Office:
  See http://www.fws.gov/coastal for contact information and addresses.
Headquarters Office:
  Fish and Wildlife Service, Division of Fish and Wildlife Management and
  Habitat Restoration, Branch of Habitat Restoration, 4401 N. Fairfax Drive, MS
  730, Arlington, VA 22203. Telephone: (703) 358-2201. Use the same number
  for FTS. Fax: (703) 358-2232.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.fws.gov/coastal.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  15.631, Partners for Fish and Wildlife.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  See web page. Restoration of tidal flow to a degraded salt marsh, customized
  habitat assessments using GIS, dam removal for fish passage.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  All projects must benefit Federal trust species and be cost effective. Project
  selection occurs at the field level. See the annual "Notice of Availability of
  Federal Assistance" in http://grants.gov for more details.
15.631 PARTNERS FOR FISH AND WILDLIFE
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Partners for Fish and Wildlife Act of 2006, 16 U.S.C. 3771-3774; Fish and
  Wildlife Act of 1956; 16 U.S.C. 742a-c, 742e-j; Fish and Wildlife Coordination
  Act of 1958, 16 U.S.C. 661-667(e).
OBJECTIVES:
  Provide technical and financial assistance to private landowners and Native
  American Tribes interested in voluntarily restoring or otherwise improving
  native habitats for fish and wildlife on their lands.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Assistance provided to private landowners (defined to include individuals, local
  governments, non-government organizations) and Native American Tribes.
  Program goal is to achieve a 50 percent cost share on projects with matching
  funds and in-kind contributions provided by the landowners and other partners.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Projects must be located on private lands. Private land is defined by the Partners
  for Fish and Wildlife Act of 2006, 16 U.S.C. 3771-3774, as any land this is not
  owned by the Federal Government or a State. Private land includes tribal land
  and Hawian homeland. Private landowners, Tribal Governments, local
  governments, educational institutions and organizations are eligible for financial
  and technical assistance from the Partners for Fish and Wildlife Program.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Private landowners, Tribal Governments, local governments, educational
  institutions and organizations and the general public.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  The local Partners for Fish and Wildlife Program Coordinator works with private
  landowners and makes a site visit to design a project that will benefit Federal
  trust resources and is acceptable for the landowner's needs. Contact the
  appropriate Partners for Fish and Wildlife Program Office for application
  procedures. Information is also available at http://www.grants.gov.
Award Procedure:
  After a project has been designed and the cost calculated, the local Partners
  Program coordinator will be able to inform the private landowner whether or not
  the Service will provide cost-share assistance. When the landowner has signed a
  cooperative agreement (a minimum of 10 years) work can begin on the project.
  The Service reimburses the landowner after the project is completed.
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  None.
                                                                                    487
