Appeals:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                
Renewals:                                                                              
  Not applicable. Private landowners may request additional projects on their          
  lands.

Formula and Matching Requirements:

  This program has no statutory formula. The Program goal is to obtain a 50

                                                                                       
  percent match of Federal monies by partnering with landowners, local                 
  community groups and other local and national conservation organizations.            
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Cost-share is a one time event that occurs after project construction.               
Reports:                                                                               
  Reporting requirements are stated in each cooperative agreement. Contact the         
  appropriate Partners for Fish and Wildlife Program Office for additional             
  information and specific requirements. Detailed biological reports are prepared      
  on a percentage of projects funded. All projects are monitored for accurate          
  construction.                                                                        
Audits:                                                                                
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of              
  States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"nonfederal entities          
  that receive financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have    
  a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities    
  that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal      
  audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.             
Records:                                                                               
  Accomplishments are recorded for each project in the Habitat Information             
  Tracking System (HabITS). HabITS tracks habitat improvement                          
  accomplishments and program-specific technical assistance workloads                  
  associated with the Coastal Program and Partners for Fish and Wildlife Program.      
Account Identification:                                                                
  14-1611-0-1-303.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  FY 07 $42,660,000; FY 08 $42,600,000; and FY 09 est $42,000,000.                     
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  Cost-share range per project is from $200 to $25,000. The average cost per           
  project is $5,400.                                                                   
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  In Fiscal Year 2007, the Partners Program helped restore or enhance an

                                                                                       
  estimated: 91,000 acres of wetlands; 420,000 acres of native grasslands and          
  other uplands; 600 miles of riparian corridors, streambanks and in-stream            
  habitats; and 140 fish passage barriers. This was accomplished using 1,850           
  landowner agreements for fish and wildlife habitat restoration on private lands.     
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  For information about Program policy and guidelines see the Partners for Fish        
  and Wildlife Program Management Policy in the Fish and Wildlife Service              
  Manual, 640 FW1 (at http://www.fws.gov/policy/640fw1.html).                          
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  See http://www.fws.gov/partners for addresses and contact information.               
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Chief, Branch of Habitat Restoration, Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of       
  the Interior, 4401 N. Fairfax Drive, Room 750, Arlington, VA 22203.                  
  Telephone: (703)358-2201. Use the same number for FTS. Fax: (703)358-                
  2232.                                                                                
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.fws.gov/partners.

                                                                                       
RELATED PROGRAMS:

                                                                                       
  15.630, Coastal Program.

                                                                                       
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

  Typical wetland restoration and enhancement techniques involve restoring the         
  natural hydrology of a site through the blocking of surface ditches, breaking sub-   
  surface drain tiles, building shallow berms to trap water, filling in concentration  
                                                                                       
  pits, removing eroded sediment which fills in basins, installing grass buffers, or

                                                                                       
  installing fences along wetlands or stream corridors that prevent cattle grazing

                                                                                       
  within the stream or wetland. Other wetland enhancement activities include

                                                                                       
  working with the landowners to better manage the wetlands through the use of

                                                                                       
  grazing, haying, discing, and burning. Upland restoration and enhancement and

                                                                                       
  riparian areas are restored and enhanced through re-seeding or planting native

                                                                                       
  grass, forbs, woody shrubs and trees. The installation of cross fencing along

                                                                                       
  with providing alternative sources of water, assist landowners develop

                                                                                       
  grassland/grazing management plans that have greater benefits for wildlife.

                                                                                       
  Removing barriers to fish migration and using natural channel design techniques

                                                                                       
  is the main focus of the Partners Program in-stream restoration work. Riparian

                                                                                       
  fencing and improved grazing systems compliments stream restoration work.

                                                                                       
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

                                                                                       
  In general, projects must benefit Federal trust species, involve on-the-ground

                                                                                       
  habitat restoration, and be cost-effective. Specific criteria for reviewing and

                                                                                       
  ranking projects were established in the national Partners policy, at                
  http://www.fws.gov/policy/640fw1.html. The program gives high priority to            
  proposed projects that benefit the National Wildlife Refuge System and/or            
  species at risk. Projects also receive priority if they: were identified as priority 


488                                                                              11-08

  by Service ecosystem teams; reduce habitat fragmentation; conserve globally or
  nationally imperiled habitats; and are self-sustaining. Also take a look at the
  annual Notice of Availability of Federal Assistance referenced in
  http://grants.gov.
15.632 CONSERVATION GRANTS PRIVATE
STEWARDSHIP FOR IMPERILED SPECIES
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Endangered Species Act of 1973, 16 U.S.C. 1361 et seq., as amended;
  Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2004,
  H.R. 2691; Public Law 108-108.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide Federal financial and other assistance to individuals and groups
  engaged in local, private, and voluntary conservation efforts to be carried out on
  private lands that benefit species listed or proposed as endangered or threatened
  under the U.S. Endangered Species Act, candidate species, or other at-risk
  species.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Assistance is provided to individuals and groups to fund the voluntary
  restoration, management, or enhancement of habitat on private lands for
  endangered, threatened, proposed, candidate, or other at-risk species. Funds will
  not be used for the acquisition of real property either through fee title or
  easements.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Sponsored organizations, individual/family, specialized group, public nonprofit
  institution/organization, private nonprofit institution/organization, small
  business, profit organization, or other private institution/organization. The
  annual Request for Proposals announced through www.grants.gov and posted to
  the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Web site at
  http://www.fws.gov/endangered/grants/private_stewardship/index.html will
  describe the criteria that must be satisfied for a proposal to be eligible for
  funding.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Anyone/General Public.
Credentials/Documentation:
  43 CFR Part 12 establishes requirements for grants awarded by agencies of the
  U.S. Department of the Interior.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  A Request for Proposals is published annually through www.grants.gov and
  posted to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Web site at
  http://www.fws.gov/endangered/grants/private_stewardship/index.html.
  Additional information and instructions are printed and distributed annually.
  The standard application for Federal Assistance is submitted. The project
  title/description section of the application will address the evaluation factors
  identified in the annual Request for Proposals posted to the internet locations
  identified above. Submit a request for a proposal package, which includes
  specific information on requirements, to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
  Regional Office.
Award Procedure:
  Final selection is made by the Secretary of the Interior, based on
  recommendations by the Director or Regional Director of the Fish and Wildlife
  Service. Funds are obligated by signature on a project agreement.
Deadlines:
  Information regarding deadline dates will be made available annually in the
  request for proposals posted at www.grants.gov and at the U.S. Fish and Wildlife
  Service Web site at
  http://www.fws.gov/endangered/grants/private_stewardship/index.html.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Information regarding approval/disapproval time frames will be made available
  annually in the request for proposals posted at www.grants.gov and at the U.S.
  Fish and Wildlife Service Web site at
  http://www.fws.gov/endangered/grants/private_stewardship/index.html.
Appeals:
  None. Proposals not funded may be resubmitted.
Renewals:
  Proposals are funded on a one-time basis. Requests for future funding must
  compete with other requests for funding.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  A 10 percent cost-share on the part of the landowner or other nonfederal partner
