  is required.                                                                         
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Awarded funds must be spent during the approved Period of Performance of the         
  grant agreement, and in accordance with DOI/FWS financial and reporting              
  procedures.                                                                          
Reports:                                                                               
  Progress and final reports are to be submitted in accordance with terms and          
  conditions of the grant agreement and be submitted within the Period of              
  Performance of the grant agreement.                                                  
Audits:                                                                                
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June           
  27, 2003, "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"        
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in          
  Federal Awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that     
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal           
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted     
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                               
Records:                                                                               
  Grants awarded to State and Local Governments will be maintained in                  
  accordance with the provisions of 43 CFR Part 12, Subpart C, "Uniform                
  Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State           
  and Local Governments." Records for grants awarded to institutions of higher         
  education and other nonprofit organizations will be maintained in accordance         
  with the provisions of 43 CFR Part 12, Subpart F, "Uniform Administrative            
  Requirements for Grants and Agreements With Institutions of Higher Education,        
  Hospitals, and Other Nonprofit Organizations."                                       
Account Identification:                                                                
  14-5495-0-1-302.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  (Grants) FY 07 $8,930,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not                
  available.                                                                           
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  $0 to $300,000 (FY 05).                                                              
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  The program was not funded in FY 2008.                                               
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  Endangered Species Act; 43 CFR 12, United States Standard Grants Application         
  Instructions, and the annual Request for Proposals posted at www.grants.gov and      
  at the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Web site at                                    
  http://www.fws.gov/endangered/grants/private_stewardship/index.html .                
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  See Catalog Appendix IV for addresses.                                               
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Division of Fish and Wildlife Management and         
  Habitat Restoration, Branch of Habitat Restoration, 4401 N. Fairfax Drive, MS        
  730, Arlington, VA 22203. Telephone: (703)358-2201. Use the same number              
  for FTS. Fax: (703)358-2232.                                                         
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  Http://endangered.fws.gov/grants/private_stewardship/index.html.                     
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  15.605, Sport Fish Restoration Program; 15.611, Wildlife Restoration; 15.618,        
  Administrative Grants for Federal Aid in Sport Fish and Wildlife Restoration;        
  15.615, Cooperative Endangered Species Conservation Fund; 15.633,                    
  Landowner Incentive Program.                                                         
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  Examples of the types of projects that may be funded include using prescribed        
  burning to restore grasslands that support imperiled species, management or          
  removal of nonnative and invasive species for protection of imperiled species,       
  fencing to exclude animals from sensitive habitats, reintroduction of imperiled      
  species to suitable habitat, or planting native vegetation to restore degraded       
  habitat.                                                                             
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  The Request for Proposals announced annually through www.grants.gov and              
  posted to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Web site at                             
  http://www.fws.gov/endangered/grants/private_stewardship/index.html describes        
  the selection criteria. Factors used to evaluate the merit of the proposals include: 
  (1) the number of endangered or threatened species, species proposed or              
  candidates for such listing, and at-risk species that will directly benefit from the 
  project; (2) the importance of the project to the conservation of the target         
  species, including the duration of the benefits, the magnitude of the benefits, and  
  the urgency of the project; (3) other proposal merits, such as whether the project   
  complements other conservation projects in the area, the project=s unique            
  qualities, or any other appropriate justifications, including particular strengths in
  the above categories (e.g., extraordinary benefits or cost share).                   
                                                                                       
                                                                                       
15.633 LANDOWNER INCENTIVE PROGRAM                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR                                
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         


                                                                                  11-08
  Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2006,
  Public Law 109-148; Title I; Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965;
  16 U.S.C. 4601-4 through 11.
OBJECTIVES:
  This program establishes or supplements existing landowner incentive programs
  that provide technical or financial assistance. This includes habitat protection
  and restoration, to private landowners for the protection and management of
  habitat to benefit Federally listed, proposed, or candidate species, or other at-risk
  species on private lands; and to encourage States, Commonwealths, or territories
  to enhance private landowner conservation by providing these benefits to private
  landowners in an efficient manner.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Tier 1 projects provide the States, Commonwealths, or territories to support
  development of a new program, or to enhance an existing landowner incentive
  program, through administration, development of plans, outreach, and other
  associated activities that assist in the accomplishment of projects on private
  lands. Tier 2 projects should place a priority on the implementation of State,
  Commonwealth, or territorial programs that provide technical and financial
  assistance to private landowners for the protection and restoration of habitats
  that benefit federally listed, proposed, or candidate species, or other species-at-
  risk.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Participation is limted to State, Commonwealth, or territorial agencies with lead
  management responsibility for fish and wildlife resources.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Private landowners and the public. (While direct participation is limited to State,
  Commonwealth, or territorial fish and wildlife agencies, private landowners will
  directly benefit from financial and technical assistance and the public will
  ultimately benefit from these wildlife conservation measures implemented on
  private lands.)
Credentials/Documentation:
  Only the agency that has lead management responsibility for fish and wildlife
  resources within the State, Commonwealth, or territory may apply for these
  grants.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is not subject to E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Application procedures are in the Fiscal Year 2007 Landowner Incentive
  Program Guidelines, (http://wsfrprograms.fws.gov. For further instructions and
  forms go to, http://wsfrprograms.fws.gov/subpages/toolkitfiles/toolkit.pdf, or
  www.grants.gov.
Award Procedure:
  The Regional Director of the U.S Fish and Wildlife Service or his or her
  designee approves or disapproves proposed projects. Regional offices are
  responsible for notification of grant approval to the grantee.
Deadlines:
  60 days after the request for grant proposals is published in the Federal Register.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 60 working days after due date.
Appeals:
  Regional Directors will consider differences of opinion concerning the eligibility
  of proposals. Final determination rests with the Director of the Fish and
  Wildlife Service.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The Federal share of project costs cannot exceed 75 percent. More detailed
  discussion concerning matching and cost-sharing requirements found in 43 CFR
  Part 12.64 and 43 CFR 12.923.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Funds are available until expended.
Reports:
  A Performance Report and Financial Status Report are required for each grant
  award annually within 90 days after the anniversary date and/or end of the grant.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that receive financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Cost records must be maintained separately for each grant. Records, accounts,
  and supporting documents must be retained for three years after submission of
  the final Financial Status Report.
Account Identification:
  14-5496-0-1-303.
                                                                                     489
