Obligations:                                                                           
  (Grants) FY 07 $21,301,500; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not               
  available.                                                                           
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  In 2007, the range for Tier 2 grants was $527,000 to $849,510. The 2007              
  average for Tier 1 grants was $180,000.                                              
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  The Fish and Wildlife Service appropriated to States, Commonwealths, and             
  territories approximately $119.8 million since 2002, for the protection and          
  restoration of habitats on private lands to benefit species classified as Special    
  Concern by the State, or Federally listed, proposed, or candidate species or other   
  species determined to be at-risk. In addition, funds have provided technical and     
  financial assistance to private landowners for habitat protection and restoration.   
  In FY 2007, the Fish and Wildlife Service apportioned $20.6 million. National        
  accomplishments funded by the Landowner Incentive Program include: 576,750           
  acres of habitat improvement or restoration; 16,338 acres of land were acquired      
  through easements; and 1,624 private landowners were provided assistance.            
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006,            
  Public Law 109-148, Title I, language on Landowner Incentive Program, and 43         
  CFR 12.                                                                              
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  See Catalog Appendix IV for addresses of Regional U.S. Fish and Wildlife             
  Service Offices.                                                                     
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Fish and Wildlife Service, Wildlife and Sport Fish Restoration Programs - Policy     
  and Programs, 4401 North Fairfax Drive, FA-4020, Arlington, VA 22203.                
  Contact: Policy and Programs, Telephone: (703) 358-2156.                             
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://wsfrprograms.fws.gov.                                                         
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  15.605, Sport Fish Restoration Program; 15.608, Fish and Wildlife Management         
  Assistance; 15.611, Wildlife Restoration; 15.615, Cooperative Endangered             
  Species Conservation Fund; 15.634, State Wildlife Grants.                            
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  In 2007, the Fish and Wildlife Service awarded Landowner Incentive Tier 2            
  funding to the following State projects. The Idaho Department of Fish and            
  Game (IDFG) received $849,510 to provide technical assistance to implement           
  selected projects that protected, restored, or enhanced approximately 1,800 acres    
  of upland habitat, 300 acres of wetlands, 4 miles of streams, and obtained           
  conservation easements on 115 acres of Palouse Prairie remnants to benefit           
  targeted at-risk species. IDFG focused their work in the Upper Henrys Fork,          
  Bear River Basin, and Palouse Prairie Conservation Priority Areas. The               
  Nebraska Game and Parks Commission (NGPC) received $765,000 to continue              
  Natural Legacy Plan implementation in twelve Biologically Unique Landscapes          
  to conserve and enhance 2,420 acres of at-risk species habitat through invasive      
  tree clearing, 11,300 acres through prescribed burning, 12,600 acres through         
  planned grazing, 1,000, acres through ecologically sensitive weed control and        
  100 acres through wetland restoration. The Oregon Department of Fish and             
  Wildlife (ODFW) received $849,510 to provide technical assistance to                 
  implement selected projects that restored or enhanced approximately 840 acres        
  of sagebrush, wetland, or riparian habitat, and 9 miles of stream habitat to         
  benefit the greater sage-grouse and coho salmon, as well as other at-risk species.   
  ODFW focused in their eastern Oregon Ecoregions (sage-grouse) and in the             
  Coast Range Ecoregion (coho salmon).                                                 
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  The State, Commonwealth, or territorial agency having lead responsibility for        
  the management of the State's, Commonwealth's, or territorial's fish and wildlife    
  resources must submit the projects. The State, Commonwealth, or territorial          
  agency selects those projects submitted for funding under the program. If            
  approved, projects must meet the basic criteria outlined in the regulations and      
  the Fish and Wildlife Service Manual.                                                
                                                                                       
                                                                                       
15.634 STATE WILDLIFE GRANTS                                                           
      (SWG)                                                                            
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR                                
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2006,          
  Public Law 109-54; Title I.                                                          
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To develop and implement programs for the benefit of wildlife and their habitat,     
  including species that are not hunted or fished.                                     
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Formula Grants; Project Grants.                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Approved activities include those, which develop and implement programs for          
  the benefit of wildlife and their habitat, including species that are not hunted or  


490                                                                              11-08

  fished. Competitive State Wildlife Grants - It is designed to encourage multi-
  state projects, partnering with public and private individuals and entities, large
  scale projects, climate change wildife-related issues, and "emerging issues" in
  context with the State Comprehensive Wildife Plans.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Participation is limited to State, Commonwealth, or territorial agencies with lead
  management responsibility for fish and wildlife resources.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  General Public (While direct participation is limited to fish and wildlife
  agencies, the public will ultimately benefit from these wildlife conservation
  measures.)
Credentials/Documentation:
  Only that agency that has lead management responsibility for fish and wildlife
  resources within the State may apply for these grants. The State,
  Commonwealth, or territory must have an approved Comprehensive Wildlife
  Conservation Plan on file to receive grant funds. The Plan must consider the
  broad range of the State, Commonwealth, or territory, agencies' wildlife and
  associated habitats, with appropriate priority placed on those species of the
  greatest conservation need.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is not covered under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Grantees will submit a grant proposal that includes a narrative statement
  describing the need, objectives, benefits, approach, and estimated cost for the
  proposed grant along with the standard application forms furnished by the
  Federal agency and required by the 43 CFR Part 12, Subpart C, "Uniform
  Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State
  and Local Governments" and the Fish and Wildlife Service Manual. For further
  instructions and forms go to
  http://wsfrprograms.fws.gov/subpages/toolkitfiles/toolkit.pdf or
  www.grants.gov. Grant proposals must clearly indicate how the proposed
  objectives address the conservation needs identified within the State's,
  Commonwealth's, or territory's Comprehensive Wildlife Conservation Plan.
Award Procedure:
  The Regional Director of the Fish and Wildlife Service or his or her designee
  approves or disapproves proposed projects. Regional offices are responsible for
  notification of grant approval to the grantee.
Deadlines:
  Non-competitive State Wildlife Grants - None; and Competitive State Wildlife
  Grants - Anticipate deadline late FY 08.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 30 days.
Appeals:
  Regional Directors will consider differences of opinion concerning the eligibility
  of proposals. Final determination rests with the Director of the Fish and
  Wildlife Service.
Renewals:
  Grantees may renew projects on an annual basis if justified and if funds are
  available.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill for FY
  05, Public Law 108-447, Title I requires that: (1) The Secretary of the Interior
  shall, after deducting administrative expenses and $6,000,000 for Tribal grants,
  apportion the remaining amount in the following manner: (A) to the District of
  Columbia and to Puerto Rico, each a sum equal to not more than one-half of 1
  percent thereof: and (B) to Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of
  Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth of Northern Mariana Islands, each a sum
  equal to not more than one-fourth of one percent thereof. (2) The Secretary must
  apportion the remaining amount in the following manner: (A) one-third of which
  is based on the ratio to which the land area of such State bears to the total land
  area of all such States; and (B) two-thirds of which is based on the ratio to which
  the population of such State bears to the total population of all such States. The
  amounts apportioned under this paragraph must be adjusted equitably so that no
  State shall be apportioned a sum which is less than 1 percent of the amount
  available for apportionment under this paragraph for any fiscal year or more than
  5 percent of such amount: The Federal share of project costs is not to exceed 75
  percent for planning or competitive grants, nor 50 percent for an implementation
  grant. More discussion is in the matching and cost sharing requirements found
  in 43 CFR 12.64 and 43 CFR 12.923.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Apportioned funds are available for obligation by the State, Commonwealth, or
  territory for a period of two years. Reimbursements can be requested on a
  continuing basis as expenditures are verified. Balances remaining unobligated
  after the period of availability or unspent after the final grant closeout must
  return to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service for reapportionment.
Reports:
  A Performance Report and Financial Status Report are required for each grant
  award annually within 90 days after the anniversary date and/or end of the grant.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised June
