  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"      
  nonfederal entities that receive financial assistance of $500,000 or more in        
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that    
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal          
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted    
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                              
Records:                                                                              
  Cost records must be maintained separately for each grant. Records, accounts,       
  and supporting documents must be retained for three years after submission of       
  the final Financial Status Report.                                                  
Account Identification:                                                               
  14-5474-0-1-303.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Non-competitive Grants) FY 07 $60,754,843; FY 08 est $61,522,997; and FY           
  09 est $69,492,000. (Competitive Grants) FY 07 $0; FY 08 est $5,000,000; and        
  FY 09 est $5,000,000.                                                               
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  $155,000 to $3,104,000; $1,109,000.                                                 
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  Since the program's 2002 inception, the Fish and Wildlife Service appropriated      
  to States, Commonwealths, and territories approximately $380 million for use in     
  restoring and protecting species of greatest concern. In FY 2008, the Fish and      
  Wildlife Service apportioned $61.5 million. In FY 2009, the Fish and Wildlife       
  Service will continue to appropriate funds to States, Commonwealths, and            
  territories for use in restoring and protecting species of greatest concern.        
  Specific 2007 accomplishments funded by the State Wildlife Grant program            
  include: 212,561 acres of habitat improvement or restoration to protect species     
  of greatest concern; 3,300 animals were stocked across the Unites States to         
  restore populations; 4,830 acres of land were acquired in fee simple; 17,241        
  acres of land were acquired through easements or lease land; and 5,276 private      
  landowners received technical assistance.                                           
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill for FY 04,      
  Public Law 108-108 language on State Wildlife Grants, and 43 CFR Part 12.           
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  See Catalog Appendix IV for addresses of Regional Fish and Wildlife Service         
  Offices.                                                                            
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Fish and Wildlife Service, Wildlife and Sport Fish Restoration Programs - Policy    
  and Programs, 4401 North Fairfax Drive, FA-4020, Arlington, VA 22203.               
  Contact: Policy and Programs, Telephone: (703) 358-2156.                            
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://wsfrprograms.fws.gov/.                                                       
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  15.605, Sport Fish Restoration Program; 15.608, Fish and Wildlife Management        
  Assistance; 15.611, Wildlife Restoration; 15.615, Cooperative Endangered            
  Species Conservation Fund; 15.633, Landowner Incentive Program.                     
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Colorado - Working Cooperatively to Conserve Western Great Plains Species           
  and Ecosystems: The State Wildlife Grant program is supporting two ongoing          
  multi-state efforts, involving twelve Western states, to develop and implement      
  conservation plans to maintain and enhance sagebrush, shrub-steppe, and prairie     
  ecosystems across the Western Great Plains. New Mexico - Partnership between        
  State and Turner Endangered Species Fund Benefits Chiricahua leopard frog.          
  State Wildlife Grant funds and the Turner Endangered Species Funds were used        
  to return the Federally threatened Chiricahua leopard frogs to the mountains,       
  valleys, and river drainages where it historically lived within Mexico. Other       
  funded projects in New Mexico and Arizona focus on finding the cause of             
  declining Chiricahua leopard frog populations and restoring the frog in its native  
  range.                                                                              
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  The State, Commonwealth, or territorial agency having lead responsibility for       
  the management of the State's, Commonwealth's, or territorial's wildlife            
  resources must submit the projects. The State, Commonwealth, or territorial         
  agency selects those projects submitted for funding under the program. If           
  approved, projects must meet the basic criteria outlined in the regulations and     
  the Fish and Wildlife Service Manual.                                               
                                                                                      
15.635 NEOTROPICAL MIGRATORY BIRD                                                     
                                                                                      
CONSERVATION                                                                          
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR                               
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Neotropical Migratory Bird Conservation Act of 2000, Public Law 106-247, 16         
  U.S.C. 6101.                                                                        
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To assist in the conservation of neotropical migratory birds by providing           
  financial resources for the projects of partnerships in countries within the ranges 
  of neotropical migratory birds.                                                     


                                                                                 11-08
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds may be used for approved neotropical migratory bird conservation
  projects. Projects must: enhance the conservation of neotropical bird species in
  the U.S., Latin America, or the Caribbean; ensure adequate local public
  participation in project development and implementation; be implemented in
  consultation with relevant wildlife management authorities and other appropriate
  government officials with jurisdiction over the resources addressed by the
  project; be sensitive to local historic and cultural resources and comply with
  applicable laws; promote sustainable effective, long-term programs to conserve
  neotropical migratory birds; and other requirements the Secretary considers to be
  necessary. The Act requires that not less than 75 percent of the amounts made
  available each fiscal year shall be expended for projects outside of the U.S.
  Projects are approved for up to a 2-year period of time.
Applicant Eligibility:
  An individual, corporation, partnership, trust, association, or other private entity;
  an officer, employee, agent, department, or instrumentality of the Federal
  Government, of any State, municipality, or political subdivision of a State, or of
  any foreign government; a State municipality, or political subdivision of a State;
  or any other entity subject to the jurisdiction of the United States or of any
  foreign country; or international organization with an interest in neotropical
  migratory bird conservation.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  An individual, profit organization, other private institution/organization, public
  nonprofit institution/organization, an officer, employee, agent, department, or
  instrumentality of the Federal Government, of any State, municipality, or
  political subdivision of a State, or of any foreign government; a State
  municipality, or political subdivision of a State; or any other entity subject to the
  jurisdiction of the United States or of any foreign country; or international
  organization with an interest in neotropical migratory bird conservation.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None. Outside the U.S., circulars and regulations are applicable only to the
  extent U.S. Federal law provides.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Grant application, including Standard Form 424, Application for Federal
  Assistance, is to be submitted electronically to the address referenced on the
  website, at http://www.fws.gov/birdhabitat/Grants/NMBCA. Information may
  also be accessed through www.grants.gov . If unable to access the website,
  request a proposal package, which includes specific requirement information,
  from the Chief, Division of Habitat Conservation, U.S. Fish and Wildlife
  Service, Mail Stop MBSP 4075, 4401 North Fairfax Drive, Arlington, VA
  22203; Telephone: (703)358-1784. Instructions are available in English,
  Portuguese and Spanish.
Award Procedure:
  Proposals are reviewed by a panel of experts from the Fish and Wildlife Service,
  who make funding recommendations to the Director. After projects are selected
  for funding, a grant agreement between the Fish and Wildlife Service and the
  grantee is drafted by the Division of Bird Habitat Conservation (DBHC). The
  agreement is then processed by DBHC and sent to the recipient. The agreement
  is considered to be executed on the date of receipt by the recipient, as evidenced
  by return of registered mail receipt to DBHC. Other than the registered mail
  signature, an agreement signature is not required of the recipient.
Deadlines:
  Application submittal dates are announced on a yearly basis; dates set are for the
  latest date that an application may be postmarked and still be accepted for
  funding consideration.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Decisions on funding of project proposals are usually made no later than 180
  days after the receipt of the project proposal.
Appeals:
  None. Proposals not funded may be resubmitted.
Renewals:
  Proposals are funded on a project-specific basis. Requests for future funding
  must complete with other requests for project funding. A grant agreement can be
  modified or extended at the discretion of the Division of Bird Habitat
  Conservation.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  In determining whether to accept projects for funding approval, applicants must
  guarantee a 3:1 match amount. That is, the applicant must match each Act
  dollar with 3 non-Federal dollars. Federal dollars refers to U.S. Federal dollars.
  Federal dollars of non-U.S. governments are eligible. In the U.S., match must be
  in cash; outside of the U.S., match may either be in cash or in-kind.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Unless the project is extended, awarded funds must be spent during the approved
  Period of Performance of the grant agreement, and in accordance with financial
  and reporting procedures specified in the grant agreement.
Reports:
                                                                                     491
