  Progress and final reports are to be submitted in accordance with terms and         
  conditions of the grant agreement.                                                  
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June          
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"      
  nonfederal entities that receive financial assistance of $500,000 or more in        
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that    
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal          
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted    
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                              
Records:                                                                              
  Records for grants awarded to State and Local Governments will be maintained        
  in accordance with the provisions of 43 CFR Part 12, Subpart C, "Uniform            
  Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State          
  and Local Governments." Records for grants awarded to institutions of higher        
  education and other nonprofit organizations will be maintained in accordance        
  with the provisions of 43 CFR Part 12, Subpart F, "Uniform Administrative           
  Requirements for Grants and Agreements With Institutions of Higher Education,       
  Hospitals, and Other Nonprofit Organizations."                                      
Account Identification:                                                               
  14-1696-0-1-303.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Grants) FY 07 $3,822,915; FY 08 est. $4,296,906; and FY 09 est. not available.     
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  Variable amounts. Awards have ranged from about $2,000 to about $250,000,           
  with an average of about $88,000. For FY 2006, the maximum award may not            
  exceed $250,000.                                                                    
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  Between 2002 and 2007, the program supported 225 projects, coordinated by           
  partners in 44 U.S. states/territories and 34 countries. More than $21 million      
  from NMBCA grants have leveraged about $97 million in partner contributions.        
  Projects involving land conservation have affected about 3 million acres of bird    
  habitat. In 2007, 37 projects were approved for funding.                            
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  NMBCA Grant Application Instructions; U.S. Grant Administration Standards           
  (for grants within the U.S.); 43 CFR Part 12 and 49 CFR Part 24.                    
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, U.S. Department of the Interior. Contact: Chief,    
  Division of Bird Habitat Conservation, Mail Stop MBSP 4075, 4401 N. Fairfax         
  Drive, Arlington, Virginia 22203. Telephone: (703) 358-1784. Fax: (703) 358-        
  2282.                                                                               
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.fws.gov/birdhabitat/Grants/NMBCA.                                        
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  15.623, North American Wetlands Conservation Fund.                                  
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Conservation projects that have as their focus enhancement and/or protection of     
  neotropical migratory birds and their habitats, and that encourage and              
  incorporate local jurisdictional and public participation in the project planning   
  and execution process.                                                              
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Proposals will be screened and selected for funding primarily on the basis of       
  criteria contained in 16 U.S.C. 6101. However, proposals will also be evaluated     
  on: scope and significance of effort; importance of resource values; relationship   
  of project to other efforts locally/regionally; feasibility and cost-effectiveness. 
                                                                                      
15.636 ALASKA SUBSISTENCE MANAGEMENT                                                  
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR                               
AUTHORIZATION:

                                                                                      
  Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (ANILCA) of 1980, Title VIII,

                                                                                      
  Public Law 96-487, 16 U.S.C. 3101-3233, Section 809. Fish and Wildlife

                                                                                      
  Coordination Act (16 U.S.C. 661 to 666).

                                                                                      
OBJECTIVES:

                                                                                      
  To identify and provide information needed to sustain subsistence fisheries and

                                                                                      
  wildlife management on Federal public lands, for rural Alaskans, through a

                                                                                      
  multidisciplinary, collaborative program. Three programs are administered under

                                                                                      
  ANILCA to fulfill this objective. The Fisheries Resource Monitoring Program

                                                                                      
  (Monitoring Program) funds approximately 80 studies annually to provide

                                                                                      
  information on stock status and trends, harvests, and traditional ecological

                                                                                      
  knowledge to manage and regulate Federal subsistence fisheries. The Partners

                                                                                      
  for Fisheries Monitoring Program (Partners Program) strengthens Alaska Native

                                                                                      
  and rural involvement subsistence fisheries and research. The program provides

                                                                                      
  funds directly to Alaska Native and rural organizations to hire fishery biologists,

                                                                                      
  social scientists, and educators to implement fisheries monitoring projects and

                                                                                      
  rural internship programs. The Liaison and Staff Support Grant to the State of

                                                                                      
  Alaska is directed specifically to the Alaska Department of Fish and Game. The

                                                                                      


492                                                                             11-08

  grant defrays salary and travel expenses that occur in support of the coordination
  between State and Federal subsistence fish and wildlife programs.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds may be used for approved fish and wildlife subsistence management,
  fisheries monitoring and traditional ecological knowledge projects.
Applicant Eligibility:
  An individual/family, profit organization, other private institution/organization,
  public nonprofit institution/organization; an officer, employee, agent,
  department or instrumentality of the Federal government, of the State of Alaska,
  municipality or political subdivision of the State of Alaska; Federally recognized
  Indian Tribal Government (including any Native village as defined in the Alaska
  Native Claims Settlement Act).
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  An individual/Family, profit organization, other private institution/organization,
  public nonprofit institution/organization; an officer, employee, agent,
  department, or instrumentality of the Federal government, of the State of
  Alaska, municipality or political subdivision of the State of Alaska, or of any
  foreign government.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372,
  "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult
  the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or her State
  for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying
  for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  The standard SF-424 application forms required by 2 CFR Part 215.12, and the
  Department of Interior Code of Federal Regulations at 43 CFR Part 12, Subpart
  F, or its revisions, must be used. For both the Monitoring and Partners
  programs, a Request for Proposal (RFP) will be posted biennially on
  http://fedbizopps.gov and http://grants.gov. Complete application information
  can be found on the Office of Subsistence Management (OSM) website at:
  http://alaska.fws.gov/asm/fisindex.cfm or, if unable to access the website a
  proposal package containing specific requirement information can be requested
  from Attn: Kathleen Orzechowski, Program Specialist, Office of Subsistence
  Management, Fisheries Division, 3601 C Street, Suite 1030, Anchorage, Alaska
  99503. For the Liaison and Staff Support Grant, a Request for Proposal will be
  posted annually on http://grants.govAPPLY. Information can be requested from
  Attn: Greg Risdahl, Wildlife Biologist, Office of Subsistence Management,
  Fisheries Division, 3601 C Street, Suite 1030, Anchorage, AK 99503.
Award Procedure:
  For the Monitoring Program, an inter-agency technical review committee
  evaluates and ranks proposals, and, for those selected for further consideration,
  subsequently the full investigation plans. The committee develops a draft
  monitoring program from the highest priority projects, based on their technical
  review and available funds. The draft monitoring plan is reviewed by ten
  regional advisory councils and the public. An inter-agency staff committee
  reviews all recommendations, and reconciles differences between staff and
  public recommendations. The Federal Subsistence Board approves biennial
  monitoring plans with the benefit of both a technical recommendation by the
  Technical Review Committee and public review by the Regional Advisory
  Councils. For the Partners Program, an internal review committee evaluates
  proposals and makes recommendations for funding. The committee evaluations
  are based on the criteria outlined in the request for federal assistance. The
  review committee ranks proposals and the assistant regional director selects
  proposals that best support the program within available funding. Once a
  Monitoring Program project or Partners Program position is selected for funding,
  a funding instrument, i.e., notice of award, between Fish and Wildlife Service
  and the recipient is drafted by the OSM. The award is processed by OSM
  through the contracting office and sent to the recipient for signature. The award
  is considered executed when signed copies of the agreement are received from
  the recipient and the contracting office has obligated funds to the agreement.
  The awards are administered by OSM. For the Liaison and Staff Support Grant,
  the Alaska Department of Fish and Game is the only non-Federal entity with
  management authority over fish and wildlife resources. This grant agreement is
  not open to competition outside the Alaska Department of Fish and Game.
Deadlines:
  Request for Proposals are announced biennially. For the Fisheries Monitoring
  Program and the Partners Program complete application information can be
  found on the Office of Subsistence Management website at:
  http://alaska.fws.gov/asm/fisindex.cfm or, if unable to access the website, a
  proposal package containing the specific requirement information can be
  requested from Attn: Kathleen Orzechowski, Program Specialist, Office of
  Subsistence Management, Fisheries Division, 3601 C Street, Suite 1030,
  Anchorage, Alaska 99503. For the Liaison and Staff Support Grant, a Request
  for Proposal will be posted annually on http://grants.govAPPLY. Information
  can be requested from Attn: Greg Risdahl, Wildlife Biologist, Office of
