  Subsistence Management, Fisheries Division, 3601 C Street, Suite 1030,           
  Anchorage, AK 99503.                                                             
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                
  Federal Subsistence Board decisions on funding of Monitoring Program projects    
  are made no later than January 20. OSM decisions on Partners Program             
  positions are announced within one year of the Request for Proposals.            
Appeals:                                                                           
  Not applicable.                                                                  
Renewals:                                                                          
  Monitoring projects and positions may be approved for one to four years          
  duration. Applicants may re-apply during subsequent Request for Proposals.       
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                 
  There is no requirement for cost sharing, matching, or cost participation.       
  However, applicants are encouraged to document matching contributions.           
  Proposals with substantial cost sharing will be ranked higher than similar       
  proposals with no identified cost sharing.                                       
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                             
  For the Monitoring and Partners Programs, upon approval, the project may be      
  extended or the agreement modified for a period not to exceed five years from    
  initial award. Awarded funds must be spent during the approved Period of         
  Performance of the award, and in accordance with financial and reporting         
  procedures specified in the award. For the Liaison and Staff Support Grant,      
  award is for one year.                                                           
Reports:                                                                           
  Progress, annual, final, performance, and significant development reports are to 
  be submitted in accordance with terms and conditions of the award. Financial     
  reports (SF-269) are required a minimum of annually in accordance with 43        
  CFR 12.                                                                          
Audits:                                                                            
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June       
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,    
  nonfederal entities that receive financial assistance of $500,000 or more in     
  Federal awards will have a single or a program specific audit conducted for that 
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal       
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted 
  in Circular No. A-133."                                                          
Records:                                                                           
  Records for cooperative agreements awarded to State and Local Governments        
  will be maintained in accordance with the provisions of 43 CFR Part 12, Subpart  
  C, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative               
  Agreements to State and Local Governments." Records for cooperative              
  agreements awarded to institutions of higher education and other nonprofit       
  organizations will be maintained in accordance with the provisions of 43 CFR     
  Part 12, Subpart F, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and          
  Agreements With Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other           
  Nonprofit Organizations."                                                        
Account Identification:                                                            
  14-1611-0-1-303.                                                                 
Obligations:                                                                       
  FY 07 $6,393,000; FY 08 $5,200,000; and FY 09 est $5,200,000.                    
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                         
  Variable amounts. In 2007, awards ranged from $3,000 to $550,000. In FY          
  2008, awards will range from $3,000 to $610,000.                                 
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                           
  The Monitoring and Partners programs provide critical information needed for     
  the management and regulation of Alaska's subsistence resources, as directed by  
  the ANILCA. The Monitoring Program provides over $4 million annually for         
  research and monitoring projects in Alaska. Approximately 80 projects are        
  conducted annually. Projects provide information on over 70 fish populations     
  important for subsistence fishers, who annually consume over 220 pounds of       
  fish per person in rural Alaska. Over 100 Alaska Native and rural organizations  
  have participated in the program. By providing sound scientific data, building   
  capacity in rural organizations forging partnerships, and promoting local        
  involvement, the Monitoring Program has enabled Federal and State                
  governments to better manage fisheries and provide for subsistence uses.         
  Through the Partners for Fisheries Monitoring Program, the U.S. Fish and         
  Wildlife Service is builidng the capability and expertise of Alaska Native       
  organizations to participate more fully in subsistence fishery management. With  
  both Monitoring and Partners programs, subsistence fisheries are actively        
  managed and sustained, proposed regulatory changes are analyzed, local           
  concerns are addressed, conflicts among user groups are minimized, and Alaska    
  Native and rural organizations are meaningfully involved in subsistence fisheries
  management and monitoring. Successful partnerships among government,             
  Alaska Native, and other organizations have promoted more effective              
  information collection, promoted internships and mentoring in rural Alaska, and  
  improved local understanding and support for the subsistence management          
  program. The Liaison and Staff Support Grant provides for effective dual         
  management and coordination between the Alaska Department of Fish and            
  Game and the Office of Subsistence Management. The grant provides funding        
  for the State to meet its responsibilities to maintain healthy fish and wildlife 


                                                                              11-08
  resources while providing contained harvest opportunities for Alaska residents.
  In addition to the development of State and Federal harvest regulations, i.e.,
  seasons, harvest limits, and methods and means, dual management also includes
  the recognition of customary and traditional uses and subsistence use amounts,
  as well as the sharing of harvest data. More specifically it is intended to protect
  and promote the sustained health of fish and wildlife populations, to ensure
  conservation and stability in fisheries and wildlife management and to include
  meaningful public involvement.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Cooperative agreements/project grants will be administered in conformance with
  the Fish and Wildlife Service Administrative Service Manual and 43 CFR 12.
Regional or Local Office:
  For the Fisheries Monitoring and Partners for Fisheries Monitoring Programs:
  Kathleen Orzechowski, Program Specialist, Office of Subsistence Management,
  Fisheries Information Service Division, 3601 C Street, Suite 1030, Anchorage,
  Alaska 99503. Telephone: (907)786-3645, E-mail:
  kathleen_orzechowski@fws.gov. For the Liaison and Staff Support Grant: Greg
  Risdahl, Wildlife Biologist, Office of Subsistence Management, Fisheries
  Division, 3601 C Street, Suite 1030, Anchorage, AK 99503, Telephone: (907)
  786-3678, E-mail: reg_risdahl@fws.gov.
Headquarters Office:
  Karie Crow, Administrative Officer, Office of Subsistence Management, 3601 C
  Street, Suite 1030, Anchorage, Alaska 99503. Telephone: (907) 786-3387, E-
  mail: karie_crow@fws.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://alaska.fws.gov/asm/fisindex.cfm.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Monitoring Program: There are more than 330 known steelhead streams in
  Southeast Alaska. The numbers of adult fish in these streams were estimated in
  the late 1980s. Most populations are thought to be quite small, with an annual
  run size of 100 or fewer adult steelhead. Approximately 56 streams are
  estimated to have run sizes of more than 200 fish, of which 12 are thought to
  contain more than 500 fish. Several systems may contain adult runs of 1,000 or
  more fish. Of the approximately 330 steelhead streams in Southeast Alaska, 75
  are located on Prince of Wales Island. A three-year project to assess adult
  steelhead populations through the use of weirs on five Prince of Wales Island
  streams concluded in 2007 and a final report is being prepared. The data
  gathered will help ensure careful management of steelhead stocks. The steelhead
  population assessment project is a cooperative effort of the Alaska Department
  of Fish and Game, the Organized Village of Kasaan, the Bureau of Indian
  Affairs, and the Forest Service. A study documenting traditional methods of
  harvest, use and processing of steelhead was completed in 2005. This was a
  cooperative effort of the Alaska Department of Fish and Game, Craig
  Community Association, Klawock Cooperative Association, and Hydaburg
  Cooperative Association. Partners Program: The success of the Fisheries
  Resource Monitoring Program depends upon a well informed public, and
  support of the program and resulting projects within rural communities.
  However, most rural communities and organizations do not have the capacity to
  meaningfully participate in the program, and many people do not understand
  how the program operates. Within the Kuskokwim region, Kuskokwim Native
  Association was recently awarded two positions, a fishery biologist and an
  educator position. The biologist will serve as a co-investigator on seven
  Monitoring Program projects and serve as a mentor for rural college student
  interns. The educator will mentor students working on Monitoring Program
  projects during the summer and assist students in the fall while they bring what
  they learned into their classrooms.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  For the Monitoring Program, each proposal is evaluated using the following four
  criteria: (1) Strategic Priorities: Studies must be responsive to identified issues
  and information needs. All projects must have a direct association to a Federal
  subsistence fishery, and either the subsistence fishery or fish stocks in question
  must occur in waters within or adjacent to Federal public lands. (2) Technical
  and Scientific Merit: Technical quality of the study design must meet accepted
  standards for information and collection, compilation, analysis, and reporting.
  Studies must have clear objectives, appropriate sampling design, correct
  analytical procedures, and specified progress and final reports. (3) Investigator
  Ability and Resources: Investigators Ability and Resources: Investigators and
  their organizations should have demonstrated technical and administrative
  expertise to complete prior studies, or have co-investigators or appropriate
  partnerships with other organizations to meet all requirements of the study. (4)
  Partnership-Capacity Building: Studies must include appropriate partners and
  contribute to building capacities of rural organizations, local communities, and
  residents to participate in fisheries resource managment. Investigators and their
  organizations should be able to demonstrate the ability to maintain effective
  local relationships and a commitment to capacity building. For the Partners
  Program, each proposal is evaluated using the following equally weighted
  criteria: (1) Ability to successfully implement the program as described. (2)
  Strategic priority and past performance of the Monitoring Program project. (3)
                                                                                   493
