  Letters of support from tribal and rural organizations, government agencies,          
  project investigators, and schools/universities. (4) Annual and total cost of the     
  proposal, including the use of in-kind or matching contributions that either          
  decrease cost or expand support for implementing the Partners Program. (5) Past       
  performance on implementing Monitoring Program projects. (6) Past                     
  performance on current or past agreements with the Office of Subsistence              
  Management. (7) Previous experience in mentoring, training, and supervising           
  personnel. (8) Past and current accounting practices to ensure deliverables and       
  accountability. (9) The following items must be included in the application for       
  successful submission and review. Each of these items carries a "Go/No-Go"            
  impact: lack of direct linkage of a Monitoring Program project, enrollment in         
  CCR; affirming in writing in your application that you have enrolled in CCR;          
  providing your DUNS Number; submission of completed SF-424, SF-424A, and              
  SF-424B package; and submission of indirect rate documentation (the                   
  agreement, the pool, and the base) if requesting reimbursement for indirect costs,    
  unless no indirect reimbursement is being requested. For the Liaison and Staff        
  Support Grant, the Alaska Department of Fish and Game is the only non-federal         
  entity with management authority over fish and wildlife resources. This grant         
  agreement is not open to competition outside the Alaska Department of Fish and        
  Game.                                                                                 
                                                                                        
                                                                                        
15.637 MIGRATORY BIRD JOINT VENTURES                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                         
  FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR                                 
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                          
  Fish and Wildlife Act of 1956, as amended, 16 U.S.C. 742a-754; Fish and               
  Wildlife Coordination Act of 1958, 16 U.S.C.661-667(e); Fish and Wildlife             
  Conservation Act, 16 U.S.C, 2901-2911; and Migratory Bird Treaty Act,                 
  (16U.S.C. 709a).                                                                      
OBJECTIVES:                                                                             
  To protect, restore and enhance wetland and upland ecosystems for the                 
  conservation of migratory birds.                                                      
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                    
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                              
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                              
  Joint Ventures are public/private partnerships, are guided by a Management            
  Board of public/private representatives snd use a Fish and Wildlife Service           
  approved Implementation Plan that establishes conservation goals, priorities, and     
  strategies. The Implementation Plan typically includes stepped down goals and         
  objectives from a variety of national and international bird planning efforts. A      
  Joint Venture Coordinator facilitates the coordination and implementation of the      
  Joint Venture. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service provides basic administrative       
  funding to Joint Ventures to cover costs associated with coordination; planning;      
  monitoring, evaluation and applied research; communications and outreach; and         
  project development and implementation. Joint Ventures may provide federal            
  assistance to partners within these categories to achieve the goals of the Joint      
  Venture. The FWS does not fund the entire scope of Joint Venture operations.          
  Joint Venture partners are expected to contribute funding towards one or more of      
  these categories. Non-federal match is not required, but leveraging FWS dollars       
  provided for Joint Venture administration is a critical component of the Joint        
  Venture program.                                                                      
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                  
  Federal, State and local government agencies, Federally recognized Indian             
  Tribal governments, private nonprofit institutions/organizations; public              
  nonprofit institutions/organizations; profit organizations, interstate and intrastate 
  entities, and individuals or families who are also private landowners.                
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                
  General Public.                                                                       
Credentials/Documentation:                                                              
  Must participate or intend to participate in strategic conservation planning,         
  implementation and evaluation activities designed to meet Joint Venture               
  objectives as identified in an approved Implementation Plan and all related           
  plans.                                                                                
Preapplication Coordination:                                                            
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                        
Application Procedure:                                                                  
  Joint venture partner/potential partner contact Joint Venture Coordinator to          
  discuss Joint Venture (JV) needs and objectives, or JV Coordinator may initiate       
  the contact. Coordinators work with partners/potential partners to design             
  projects and discuss cost-share programs/activities that will contribute to           
  meeting Joint Venture goals. Preparation of Environmental Impact Statements is        
  not a prerequisite for receiving federal assistance/funding. State Plans are not      
  required.                                                                             
Award Procedure:                                                                        
  Applicant must complete the Standard Form (SF) 424, and the appropriate               
  Budget and Assurances forms (SF 424A and SF 424B - Non Construction; or SF            
  424C and SF 424D - Construction). Once the project is designed and either fits        
  within an approved Implementation Plan or is reviewed and approved by a Joint         
  Venture Management Board, a cooperative agreement or grant agreement is               


494                                                                               11-08

  written and work can begin.
Deadlines:
  None. Funding decisions are made at least annually. All applications received
  will be held for consideration during the next review period.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  180 Days.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None. Partners/potential partners may request additional projects to meet Joint
  Venture goals and objectives.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Length and Time Phasing of Assistance: Cooperative agreements are normally
  written for a 1 to 5 year period. For project cost-share grants, a 2 year period for
  expenditure of funds is the norm. Payments are generally made on a quarterly
  basis.
Reports:
  All projects and activities are monitored for progress and compliance with
  agreed on scope of work. Written reports on completion of the project are
  generally required. Recipients are required to submit annual Financial Status
  Reports using SF 269 or SF 269A within 90 calendar days after the grant year
  (i.e., 12 months after the approved effective date of the assistance agreement and
  every 12 months thereafter until the expiration date of the assistance agreement).
  A final Financial Status Report is required 90 calendar days after the expiration
  or termination of the assistance agreement.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments and Non-Profit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that receive financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  The Recipient shall maintain a complete, detailed accounting system to report
  expenditures of grant funds and accomplishments achieved under the award.
  Records, accounts, and supporting documents must be retained for 3 years after
  submission of the final Financial Status Report.
Account Identification:
  14-1611-0-1-303.
Obligations:
  (Project Grants) FY 07 $4,019,000; FY 08 est $5,000,000; and FY 09 est not
  available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $2,400 to $900,000; $225,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Six original Joint Ventures were formed in 1987 to implement the North
  American Waterfowl Management Plan. As of 2007, there are 17 joint ventures
  that focus on regions containing critical habitats and 3 that focus on individual
  species in the US, Canada, Mexico. Joint venture partners have invested more
  than $2.2 billion to protect, restore or enhance more than 9 million acres of
  wetlands, grasslands, forests and riparian habitats in the U.S. alone. Joint
  ventures adapt program principles to their own geographic and cultural
  conditions and pool limited resources to successful conservation actions that
  involve a variety of public and private stakeholders.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Fish and Wildlife Service Policy 721 FW6, Joint Venture Implementation Plans,
  Joint Venture Accomplishment Reports.
Regional or Local Office:
  See Catalog Appendix IV for addresses.
Headquarters Office:
  U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, U.S. Department of the Interior, Division of Bird
  Habitat Conservation, Joint Venture Liaison Officer, Mail Stop MBSP 4075,
  4401 N. Fairfax Drive, Arlington, VA 22203. Telephone: (703) 358-1784; Fax:
  (703) 358-2282. Email: DBHC@fws.gov.
Web Site Address:
  www.grants.gov; http://www.fws.gov/birdhabitat/JointVentures/index.shtm.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  15.631, Partners for Fish and Wildlife; 15.623, North American Wetlands
  Conservation Fund; 15.647, Migratory Bird Conservation; 15.635, Neotropical
  Migratory Bird Conservation.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Administration, coordination and assessment of management practices necessary
  to ensure the effective operation and implementation of a joint venture. Develop
  integrated migratory bird habitat landscape planning, including development of
  biological models, spatial analysis and Geographic Information systems to
  develop joint venture objectives. Monitoring, evaluation and applied research
  including testing planning assumptions, management uncertainties, development
