  of baseline data and data bases, biological assessments, species and habitat       
  surveys and research projects necessary to assess biological performance; socio-   
  economic surveys to better understand economic and cultural issues affecting       
  conservation in the Joint Venture. Habitat conservation, such as protection,       
  restoration and enhancement of wetland, riparian, grassland, forest, coastal and   
  estuarine habitats, including work with private landowners, to achieve joint       
  venture objectives. Communications and outreach efforts include newsletters,       
  educational pamphlets, web sites, technical assistance, workshops and training     
  for joint venture partners.                                                        
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Applicants must be an existing or potential partner of a Joint Venture, and must   
  agree to support Joint Venture goals and objectives. Project must fall within      
  scope of a Management Board approved Joint Venture Implementation Plan and         
  related conservation plans. Projects must contribute to overall Joint Venture      
  goals and objectives. Project must be cost-effective. Projects that leverage grant 
  funds with partner funds or in-kind services will receive preference.              
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
15.638 TRIBAL LANDOWNER INCENTIVE PROGRAM                                            
   (TLIP)                                                                            
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR                              
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2004, Title    
  I, Public Law 108-108; Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965, 16            
  U.S.C. 4601-4 through 11.                                                          
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To establish or supplement existing programs that provide technical or financial   
  assistance including habitat protection and restoration, to Federally recognized   
  Indian tribes for the protection and management of habitat to benefit Federally    
  listed, proposed, or candidate species, or other at-risk species.                  
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  These discretionary grants are available for conservation efforts to be carried out
  on private lands, to provide technical or financial assistance to private          
  landowners for the purpose of benefiting Federally listed, proposed, or candidate  
  species, or other at-risk species on private lands. Assistance must be to protect, 
  restore, or manage habitat on private lands. (No new funds are expected in FY      
  09, the Fish and Wildlife Service will not be accepting proposals.                 
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Participation is limited to Federally recognized Indian tribal governments. For    
  the purposes of inclusion under TLIP, tribal trust lands are treated similarly to  
  lands under private ownership.                                                     
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Anyone/General Public (While direct participation is limited to Federally          
  Recognized Indian Tribal governments, the general public will ultimately benefit   
  from these wildlife conservation measures.)                                        
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Only Federally recognized Tribes in all parts of the United States are eligible to 
  receive grants under this program, including federally recognized Tribes,          
  pueblos, rancherias, and Alaska native villages or traditional councils as defined 
  by the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act. Federally recognized Tribes are        
  listed in the Federal Register (68 FR 68180; December 5, 2003).                    
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                     
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Not applicable.

Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

  Not applicable.                                                                    
Appeals:                                                                             
  Not applicable.

Renewals:                                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  The Federal share of project costs is not to exceed 75 percent. Matching and       
  cost sharing requirements are discussed in 43 CFR Part 12, Section 12.64.          
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Funds are available until expended. Reimbursements can be requested on a           
  continuing basis as expenditures are verified. Balances remaining unobligated or   
  unspent after the final grant closeout are returned to the Service for             
  reapportionment.                                                                   
Reports:                                                                             
  A Performance Report and Financial Status Report are required for each grant       
  annually within 90 days after the anniversary date and/or end of the grant.        
Audits:

                                                                                11-08
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that receive financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Cost records must be maintained separately for each project. Records, accounts,
  and supporting documents must be retained for three years after submission of
  final Financial Status Report.
Account Identification:
  14-5496-0-1-303.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $2,366,690; FY 08 $0; and FY 09 $0.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Not applicable.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY 08, TLIP was not funded and no funds are expected in FY 09.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2004,
  Public Law 108-108, Title I, language on Landowner Incentive Program, and 43
  CFR 12.
Regional or Local Office:
  See Catalog Appendix IV for addresses.
Headquarters Office:
  Fish and Wildlife Service, Division of External Affairs, ATTN: Native American
  Liaison, Mail Stop-3251, 1849 C Street N.W., Washington, DC 20240.
  Telephone: (202) 208-4133, Fax: (202) 501-3524.
Web Site Address:
  http://grants.fws.gov/tribal.html.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  15.631, Partners for Fish and Wildlife; 15.623, North American Wetlands
  Conservation Fund; 15.630, Coastal Program; 15.639, Tribal Wildlife Grants
  Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Habitat improvement, augmentation, and monitoring of Roundtail chub (Gila
  Robusta) in the Navajo River; restoring the Penobscot River ecosystem; and a
  perennial stream study of the Topeka Shiner.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The following criteria will be used for selecting proposals: (1) Benefit: What are
  the probable significant outcomes to protect and restore habitats that benefit
  federally listed, proposed, or candidate species, or other at-risk species on tribal
  lands if this program is successfully completed? The Service requires that the
  Tribe articulate how the benefits of its proposal support the goals and objectives
  of the TLIP and Service and tribal Performance Goals in its proposal narratives.
  (2) Performance Measures: To what extent does the proposal provide obtainable
  and quantifiable performance measures and means to monitor, evaluate, and
  report on these measures compared to an initial baseline? The measures should
  be specific and clear and should provide demonstrable benefits to the target
  species of the action. These measures must support the goals and objectives of
  the TLIP, the Service, and the Tribe. (3) Work Plan: Are the program activities
  and objectives well-designed and achievable? (4) Budget: Are all major budget
  items justified in relation to the program objectives and clearly explained in the
  narrative description? (5) Capacity Building: To what extent does the program
  increase the grantee's capacity to implement actions and activities that protect
  and restore habitats that benefit Federally listed, proposed, or candidate species,
  or other at-risk species on tribal lands? (6) Contributions and Partnerships: To
  what extent does the applicant display commitment to the project proposal
  through in-kind contribution or matching funds and to what extent does it
  incorporate contributions from other nonfederal partners in the form of either
  cash or in-kind services?
15.639 TRIBAL WILDLIFE GRANTS PROGRAM
   (TWG)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, FY 2004,
  Title I, Public Law 108-108, Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965,
  16 U.S.C. 4601-4 through 11.
OBJECTIVES:
  To develop and implement programs for the benefit of wildlife and their habitat,
  including species that are not hunted or fished.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Approved activities include those which develop and implement programs for
                                                                                    495
