  the benefit of wildlife and their habitat, including species that are not hunted or 
  fished.                                                                             
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Participation is limited to Federally recognized Indian tribal governments. For     
  the purposes of inclusion under TLIP, tribal trust lands are treated similarly to   
  lands under private ownership.                                                      
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Anyone/General Public (While direct participation is limited to Federally           
  recognized Indian tribal governments, the general public will ultimately benefit    
  from these wildlife conservation measures).                                         
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Only Federally recognized Tribes in all parts of the United States are eligible to  
  receive grants under this program, including Federally recognized Tribes,           
  pueblos, rancherias, and Alaska native villages or traditional councils as defined  
  by the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act. Federally recognized Tribes are         
  listed in FR/Vol. 73, No. 66, p. 18553/April 4, 2008.                               
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                      
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Application procedures are spelled out in the "Tribal Wildlife Grant Application    
  Kit" available electronically at: http://grants.fws.gov/tribal.html. To receive a   
  paper copy, contact the regional Office of the Native American Liaison.             
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  The Director of the Fish and Wildlife Service or his or her designee approves or    
  disapproves proposed projects. Regional offices are responsible for notification    
  of grant approval to the grantee and will coordinate the development of the grant   
  agreement.                                                                          
Deadlines:                                                                            
  60 days after the request for grant proposals is announced and published on         
  Grants.gov .                                                                        
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Proposals will be scored, ranked and selected approximately 90 working days         
  after the deadline for submitting proposals.                                        
Appeals:                                                                              
  Any differences of opinion over the eligibility of proposed activities or           
  differences arising over the conduct of work may be appealed to the Director,       
  Fish and Wildlife Service. Final determination rests with the Secretary of the      
  Interior.                                                                           
Renewals:                                                                             
  None. Any requests for future funding must compete with requests for new            
  projects.

Formula and Matching Requirements:

  There is no matching requirement, however, the Service will consider matching

                                                                                      
  funds as an indication of tribal commitment to the program and to encourage         
  partnerships. Matching and cost sharing requirements are discussed in 43 CFR        
  Part 12, Section 12.64.                                                             
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Apportioned funds are available for obligation by the tribe until expended.         
  Reimbursements can be requested on a continuing basis as expenditures are           
  verified. Balances remaining unobligated or unspent after the final grant           
  closeout are returned to the Service for reapportionment.                           
Reports:                                                                              
  A Performance Report and Financial Status Report are required for each grant        
  annually within 90 days after the anniversary date and/or end of the grant.         
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised June           
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"      
  nonfederal entities that receive financial assistance of $500,000 or more in        
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that    
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal          
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted    
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                              
Records:                                                                              
  Cost records must be maintained separately for each project. Records, accounts,     
  and supporting documents must be retained for three years after submission of       
  the final Financial Status Report.                                                  
Account Identification:                                                               
  14-5474-0-1-303.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Grants) FY 07 $6,000,000; FY 08 $6,000,000; and FY 09 est $6,000,000.              
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  Awards may be granted up to a maximum of $250,000 and there is no                   
  minimum. Tribes may submit more than one proposal however no tribe may              
  receive more than $250,000 in any single TWG cycle.                                 
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  In FY 2008, 38 proposals were selected for funding from a pool of 112               
  submissions. We are expecting a slightly larger number of submissions in FY         
  09.                                                                                 
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill for FY

                                                                                      


496                                                                             11-08

  2002, Public Law 107-63 language on State Wildlife Grants, and 43 CFR Part
  12.
Regional or Local Office:
  See Catalog Appendix IV for addresses.
Headquarters Office:
  Fish and Wildlife Service, Division of External Affairs, ATTN: Native American
  Liaison, Mail Stop-3251, 1849 C Street N.W., Washington, DC 20240.
  Telephone: (202) 208-4133, Fax: (202) 501-3524.
Web Site Address:
  http://grants.fws.gov/tribal.html
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  15.631, Partners for Fish and Wildlife; 15.623, North American Wetlands
  Conservation Fund; 15.630, Coastal Program; 15.638, Tribal Landowner
  Incentive Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Nooksack Cumulative Watershed Effects Assessment South Fork Nooksack In-
  Stream Restoration Project; Red Lake Wildlife Habitat Preservation and
  Maintenance, Enhancement and Evaluation Project; Habitat Use, Seasonal
  Movements and Stock Structure of Bearded Seals in Kotzebue Sound, Alaska.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The following criteria is used to select proposals: (1) Benefit: What are the
  expected benefits to fish and wildlife resources, including species that are not
  hunted or fished, and their habitat if this program is successfully completed? The
  Service requires that the Tribe articulate how the benefits of its proposal support
  the goals and objectives of the TWG and Service and tribal Performance Goals
  in their proposal narratives. (2) Performance Measures: To what extent does the
  proposal provide obtainable and quantifiable performance measures and a means
  to monitor, evaluate, and report on these measures compared to an initial
  baseline? The measures should be specific and clear, and should provide
  demonstrable benefits to the target species of the action. These actions must
  support the goals and objectives of the TWG, the Service and the Tribe. (3)
  Work plan: Are the program activities and objectives well-designed and
  achievable? (4) Budget: Are all major budget items justified in relation to the
  program objectives and clearly explained in the narrative description? (5)
  Capacity Building: To what extent does the program increase the grantee's
  capacity to provide for the benefit of wildlife and their habitat? (6)
  Contributions and Partnerships: To what extent does the applicant display
  commitment to the project proposal through in-kind contribution or matching
  funds and to what extent does it incorporate contributions from other nonfederal
  partners in the form of either cash or in-kind services?
15.640 WILDLIFE WITHOUT BORDERS- LATIN AMERICA
AND THE CARIBBEAN
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531-43).
OBJECTIVES:
  The Wildlife Without Borders-Latin America and the Caribbean Program
  focuses on strengthening the ability of Latin American and Caribbean
  institutions to manage and conserve species, habitats and ecological processes
  for the benefit of the people of the Americas and the world. Of particular
  interest are projects that build the human and institutional capacity to effectively
  conserve and manage natural protected areas in Latin America and the
  Caribbean. Program objectives are: (1) To advance, through capacity building,
  the transition of protected areas from legally established but under-implemented
  paper parks to effectively managed landscapes, benefiting species of regional
  concern; and (2) To develop, strengthen and replicate high-quality conservation
  training programs that reach the priority audiences associated with protected
  areas. The priority audiences for the training supported by this Program include:
  Protected area managers and administrators; Protected area guards and rangers;
  Protected area outreach and education specialists; Community leaders (living in
  and around protected areas); Upper-level students (working on projects in and
  around protected areas); and Decision-makers who influence protected areas
  (including private landowners, legislators, and public officials).
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Projects should take place in Latin America or the Caribbean, ideally in a
  recognized high priority ecosystem or ecoregion of biome, or a key location
  associated with flagship, endangered or migratory species of regional concern.
  If work is to be conducted outside that region, the proposal must explain why it
  is preferable that the project is implemented elsewhere. Funds provided under
  this program will not be used for the following activities: the purchase of
  firearms or ammunitions; buying of intelligence information or paying
  informants; gathering information by persons who conceal their true identity;
  law enforcement operations that prompt suspects to carry out illegal activities so
  they may be arrested (entrapment); or any activity that would circumvent
  sanctions, treaties, laws or regulations of either the U.S. or the country in which
