  the activity would occur. Funds may not be used to provide material support or    
  resources to individuals, entities, or organizations of countries that have been  
  identified by the U.S. Department of State as state sponsors of terrorism. The    
  countries currently identified are: Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Sudan and Syria.     
  This program is administered in compliance with the Federal Grants and            
  Cooperative Agreements Act of 1977, as amended. These funds may not be used       
  towards training U.S. Federal Government personnel.                               
Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  Participation is limited to Federal, State and local governments, non-profit, non-
  governmental organizations; public and private institutions of higher education;  
  and any other organization or individual with demonstrated experience deemed      
  necessary to carry out the proposed project.                                      
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                            
  Federal, State and local government agencies; non-profit, non-governmental        
  organizations; public and private institutions of higher education; and any other 
  organization or individual with demonstrated experience deemed necessary to       
  carry out the proposed project.                                                   
Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  None.                                                                             
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                    
Application Procedure:                                                              
  The program announcement and application instructions for this program can be     
  found at the Grants.gov website. The Notice of Funding Availability and           
  Application Instructions are also located on the program website at               
  http://www.fws.gov/international/DICprograms/lac.htm. If you are unable to        
  access the Internet, hard copies are available upon request from the Branch of    
  Latin America & the Caribbean, Division of International Conservation, U.S.       
  Fish and Wildlife Service, 4401 N. Fairfax Drive, Room 100, Arlington, VA         
  22203.                                                                            
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  Projects are reviewed and competitively selected for funding using criteria       
  developed specifically for this program. Review criteria can be found in the      
  application information at                                                        
  http://www.fws.gov/international/DICprograms/lac.htm. Once a proposal has         
  been selected for funding, an Assistance Award between the Fish and Wildlife      
  Service and the Recipient is drafted by the Division of International             
  Conservation. The draft Award is then submitted to the Division of Contracting    
  and Facilities Management (CFM) where it is executed by an FWS Contracting        
  Officer. Fully executed Awards are sent to the Recipient either electronically or 
  through the mail. The Division of International Conservation then administers     
  all other aspects of the Assistance Award.                                        
Deadlines:                                                                          
  This program has two annual deadlines. The first deadline is October 15 each      
  year. The second deadline is April 15 each year.                                  
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  Decisions on funding of project proposals are normally made no later than 180     
  days after the receipt of the project proposals.                                  
Appeals:                                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                   
Renewals:                                                                           
  None. However, at the discretion of the Division of International Conservation    
  awards can be modified, e.g.; extended for time or budget changes made.

Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  Applicants and/or other project partners must contribute funds to the project,

  which may include cash or in-kind contributions.                                  
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  Upon approval, the project may be extended or the agreement modified.             
  Awarded funds must be spent during the period of performance indicated on the     
  Assistance Award, and in accordance with the financial and performance            
  reporting procedures specified in the Assistance Award.                           
Reports:                                                                            
  Financial and performance reports are to be submitted in accordance with the      
  terms and conditions established in the Assistance Award. Complete reporting      
  requirements can be found at this programs web page at                            
  http://www.fws.gov/international/DICprograms/lac.htm. For financial reporting,    
  Domestic Recipients with no program income to report shall use Standard Form      
  269a. Domestic recipients with program income to report shall use Standard        
  Form 269. Non-domestic Recipients shall submit a financial status report that     
  follows the same format of the original project proposal budget table, itemizes   
  expenditures for the reporting period any describes any deviations from the       
  approved project budget.                                                          
Audits:                                                                             
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised June 27,         
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"        
  nonfederal entities that expend $500,000 in Federal awards shall have a single or 
  a program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that        
  expend less than $500,00 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit   
  requirements for that year, except as noted in OMB Circular A-133.                
Records:                                                                            


                                                                               11-08
  Recipient will maintain records in accordance with the provisions of 43 CFR
  part 12, Subpart C, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and
  Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments" and 43 CFR Part 12,
  Subpart F, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Agreements
  with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and other Nonprofit
  Organizations".
Account Identification:
  14-1611-0-1-303.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $691,000; FY 08 $1,229,000; and FY 09 est $532,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Variable amounts. Due to the limited funding available and the desire to support
  diverse projects, preference will be given to proposals requesting less than
  $25,000.00. Higher amounts may be requested with appropriate justification.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY 2007 the Service funded 39 conservation projects under this program. A
  summary of each of those projects can be found at the program webpage at
  http://www.fws.gov/international/DICprograms/lac.htm.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Grants will be administered in conformance with the Assistance Award
  Guidelines established by the Division of International Conservation, which uses
  as its source all applicable award terms and conditions found at
  http://www.doi.gov/pam/TermsandConditions.html. The Assistance Award
  Guidelines can be found on-line at
  http://www.fws.gov/international/DICprograms/lac.htm or in hard copy by
  contacting the Division of International Conservation at (703) 358-1754.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior. Contact: Chief, Division
  of International Conservation, 4401 North Fairfax Drive, Room 100, Arlington,
  VA 22203-1622. Telephone: (703) 358-1754. Fax: (703) 358-2115. E-mail:
  WWB_LAC@fws.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.fws.gov/international/grants/grants.html.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  15.641, Wildlife Without Borders-Mexico; 15.651, Wildlife Without Borders-
  Africa Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Annual summaries of the projects funded under this program can be found at
  http://www.fws.gov/international/DICprograms/lac.htm. Hard copies of this
  information are available upon request from the Division of Division of
  International Conservation at (703) 358-1754.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Due to the limited funding available and the desire to support diverse projects,
  preference will be given to proposals requesting less than $25,000. A complete
  list of the criteria used to select projects under this program can be found in the
  Latin America & the Caribbean Notice of Funding Availability and Application
  Instructions located on line at
  http://www.fws.gov/international/DICprograms/lac.htm. Hard copies are
  available upon request from the Division of International Conservation at (703)
  358-1754.
15.641 WILDLIFE WITHOUT BORDERS-MEXICO
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended, 16 U.S.C. 1531-43.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide support for projects that build human and institutional capacity for
  biodiversity conservation and management in Mexico through training
  associated with Mexican nature reserves. Of interest are projects that provide
  training in biodiversity conservation or natural resource management associated
  with federal, state, or local nature reserves, or areas in the process of acquiring
  protection status, as well as other priority biodiversity areas designated by the
  Government of Mexico.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funding will be provided for training projects, including short-term (2-3 week)
  on-the-job courses certified by an educational institution (Diplomados),
  workshops, personnel exchanges, training provided through on-the-ground
  practices, among other delivery mechanisms, with the following objectives: (1)
  develop specific conservation/management skills of resources managers by
  addressing critical gaps in formal and informal training in Mexico while
  increasing the number of personnel trained; (2) promote training that links sound
  management practices in nature reserves to the creation of economic
  opportunities for buffer zone communities; and (3) raise the level of awareness
  and capacity of key stakeholder groups to deliver conservation. Applicants
                                                                                    497
