  should be proposing work to be conducted in Mexico. If work is to be                
  conducted in the United States, the proposal must show a clear connection to        
  capacity building for biodiversity conservation in Mexico to be eligible for        
  funding. Funds provided under this program will not be used for the following       
  activities: the purchase of firearms or ammunitions; buying of intelligence         
  information or paying informants; gathering information by persons who conceal      
  their true identity; law enforcement operations that prompt suspects to carry out   
  illegal activities so they may be arrested (entrapment); or any activity that would 
  circumvent sanctions, treaties, laws or regulations of either the U.S. or Mexico.   
  Funds may not be used to provide material support or resources to individuals,      
  entities, or organizations of countries that have been identified by the U.S.       
  Department of State as state sponsors of terrorism. The countries currently         
  identified are: Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Sudan and Syria. This program is           
  administered in compliance with the Federal Grants and Cooperative                  
  Agreements Act of 1977, as amended. These funds may not be used towards             
  training U.S. Federal Government personnel.                                         
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Participation is limited to Federal, State and local governments, non-profit, non-  
  governmental organizations; public and private institutions of higher education;    
  and any other organization or individual with demonstrated experience deemed        
  necessary to carry out the proposed project.                                        
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Federal, State and local government; public nonprofit institution/organizations;    
  public and private institutions of higher education; and any other organization or  
  individual with demonstrated experience deemed necessary to carry out the           
  proposed project.                                                                   
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  None.                                                                               
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                      
Application Procedure:                                                                
  The program announcement and application instructions for this program can be       
  found at the Grants.gov website. The Notice of Funding Availability and             
  Application Instructions are also located on this programs website                  
  athttp://www.fws.gov/international/DICprograms/mexico.htm. If you are unable        
  to access the Internet, hard copies are available upon request from the Branch of   
  Mexico, Division of International Conservation, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service,     
  4401 N. Fairfax Drive, Room 100, Arlington, VA 22203.                               
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Projects are simultaneously reviewed by a panel convened by the U.S. Fish and       
  Wildlife Service and a panel convened by the Mexican Ministry of the                
  Environment and Natural Resources (SEMARNAT). Final funding decisions               
  are made jointly by representatives of the Service and SEMARNAT based on the        
  recommendations of the two review panels. Review criteria can be found in the       
  application information at                                                          
  http://www.fws.gov/international/DICprograms/mexico.htm. Once a proposal            
  has been selected for funding, an Assistance Award between the Fish and             
  Wildlife Service and the Recipient is drafted by the Division of International      
  Conservation. The draft Award is then submitted to the Division of Contracting      
  and Facilities Management (CFM) where it is executed by an FWS Contracting          
  Officer. Fully executed Awards are sent to the Recipient either electronically or   
  through the mail. The Division of International Conservation then administers       
  all other aspects of the Assistance Award.                                          
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Proposals must be submitted to both the Fish and Wildlife Service and               
  SEMARNAT on or before October 1 each year.                                          
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Decisions on funding of project proposals are normally made no later than 180       
  days after the receipt of the project proposals.                                    
Appeals:                                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Renewals:                                                                             
  None. However, at the discretion of the Division of International Conservation      
  awards can be modified, e.g.; extended for time or budget changes made.             
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Applicants and/or other project partners must contribute funds to the project,

  which may include cash or in-kind contributions. In determining whether to          
  approve project proposals, preference is given to projects for which matching

  funds are available.                                                                
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

  Upon approval, the project may be extended or the agreement modified.               
  Awarded funds must be spent during the period of performance indicated on the       
  Assistance Award, and in accordance with the financial and performance              
  reporting procedures specified in the Assistance Award document.                    
Reports:                                                                              
  Financial and performance reports are to be submitted in accordance with the        
  terms and conditions established in the Assistance Award. Complete reporting        
  requirements can be found at this programs web page at                              
  http://www.fws.gov/international/DICprograms/mexico.htm. For financial              
  reporting, Domestic Recipients with no program income to report shall use           


498                                                                             11-08

  Standard Form 269a. Domestic recipients with program income to report shall
  use Standard Form 269. Non-domestic Recipients shall submit a financial status
  report that follows the same format of the original project proposal budget table,
  itemizes expenditures for the reporting period any describes any deviations from
  the approved project budget.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised June 27,
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations",
  nonfederal entities that expend $500,000 or more in Federal awards shall have a
  single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities
  that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal
  audit requirements for that year, except as noted in OMB Circular A-133.
Records:
  Recipient will maintain records in accordance with the provisions of 43 CFR
  part 12, Subpart C, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and
  Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments" and 43 CFR Part 12,
  Subpart F, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Agreements
  with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and other Nonprofit
  Organizations".
Account Identification:
  14-1611-0-1-303.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $630,000; FY 08 $697,000; and FY 09 est $425,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Variable amounts. Due to the limited funding available and the desire to support
  diverse projects, preference will be given to proposals requesting less than
  $50,000.00. Higher amounts may be requested with appropriate justification.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY07 the Service awarded 17 Assistance Awards for projects in Mexico. A
  summary of each of those projects can be found at the programs webpage at
  http://www.fws.gov/international/DICprograms/mexico.htm.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Grants will be administered in conformance with the Assistance Award
  Guidelines established by the Division of International Conservation, which uses
  as its source all applicable award terms and conditions found at
  http://www.doi.gov/pam/TermsandConditions.html. The Assistance Award
  Guidelines can be found on-line at
  http://www.fws.gov/international/DICprograms/mexico.htm or in hard copy by
  contacting the Division of International Conservation at (703) 358-1754.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior. Contact: Chief, Division
  of International Conservation, 4401 North Fairfax Drive, Room 100, Arlington,
  VA 22203-1622. Telephone: (703) 358-1754. FAX: (703) 358-2115. E-mail:
  WWB_Mexico@fws.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.fws.gov/international/grants/grants.html .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  15.640, Wildlife Without Borders- Latin America and the Caribbean; 15.651,
  Wildlife Without Borders-Africa Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Annual summaries of the projects funded under this program can be found at
  http://www.fws.gov/international/DICprograms/mexico.htm. Hard copies of this
  information are available upon request from the Division of Division of
  International Conservation at (703) 358-1754.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Due to the limited funding available and the desire to support diverse projects,
  preference will be given to proposals requesting less than $50,000.00. A
  complete list of the criteria used to select projects under this program can be
  found in the Wildlife Without Borders-Mexico Notice of Funding Availability
  and Application Instructions, located on line at
  http://www.fws.gov/international/DICprograms/mexico.htm. Hard copies can be
  obtained by contacting the Division of International Conservation at (703) 358-
  1754.
15.642 CHALLENGE COST SHARE
   (CCS)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2004, Title
  I, Public Law 108-108.
OBJECTIVES:
  Encourage partnerships with nonfederal governments, private individuals and
  organizations, educational institutions, philanthropic and charitable groups, and
  businesses to support the mission of the Service. Projects must conserve, protect,
  and enhance fish, wildlife, and plants for the continuing benefit of the American
