  people.                                                                              
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Funds may be used for approved Challenge Cost Share projects. It is the policy       
  of the Service to encourage the use of Challenge Cost Share agreements to            
  complete projects on and off Service lands. The program requires that the            
  Service expend no more than 50% of the cost to complete project and that a           
  minimum of the other 50% of the funds be of nonfederal origin.                       
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Applicants may be an individual/family, minority group, specialized group,           
  small business, profit organization, private nonprofit/organization, quasi-public    
  nonprofit institution/organization, native American, Federal, Interstate,            
  Intrastate, State, Local, Sponsored organization, public nonprofit                   
  institution/organization, other public institution/organization, U.S. territory, or  
  any organization with interests which support the mission of the Service. This       
  program requires the cooperator(s) to provide a minimum of 50 percent of cost        
  share from non-Federal sources.                                                      
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  An individual/family, profit organization, other private institution/organization,   
  public nonprofit institution/organization, an officer, employee, agent,              
  department or instrumentality of the Federal Government, of any State,               
  municipality, or political subdivision of a State, or any other entity subject to the
  jurisdiction of the United States with interests which support the mission of the    
  Service.                                                                             
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  None.                                                                                
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.

Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Interested party contacts the local National Wildlife Refuge, Partners for

  Wildlife or other Fish and Wildlife Service Office to design a project that will

                                                                                       
  support the mission of the Service. Proposals, including Standard Form 424           
  "Application for Federal Assistance," are submitted to the cooperating Service

  office that forwards them to their servicing Regional Office.                        
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  The Regional Challenge Cost Share Coordinator assembles a committee of Fish          
  and Wildlife Service employees from a variety of disciplines to review, rank and     
  select the proposals for funding.                                                    
Deadlines:                                                                             
  Application submittal dates are announced on a yearly basis, by Region. Contact      
  the appropriate Regional Office for application deadlines.                           
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Decisions on funding of project proposals are usually made no later than 180         
  days after the receipt of the project proposals. If funding is approved, a           
  Challenge Cost Share Agreement (CCSA) is written between the Service and a           
  cooperator(s) in which there is an equal partnership between the Federal             
  government and the cooperator(s) that produces or provides a tangible product        
  which mutually benefits Service objectives and the public. The Regional              
  Contracting and General Services offices will review all CCSA's for contractual      
  sufficiency. The agreements will be signed by the cooperator(s) and the              
  Regional Director.                                                                   
Appeals:                                                                               
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Renewals:                                                                              
  None. However, at the discretion of the National Wildlife Refuge System, a           
  Challenge Cost Share Agreement may be modified.                                      
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  As required in Public Law 108-108, proposals must have a minimum of a 1:1            
  match of nonfederal funds or in-kind services.                                       
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Challenge Cost Share Agreements are written for funds that should be spent           
  within 1 year; upon approval, agreements may be extended beyond the 1 year for       
  reasonable cause.                                                                    
Reports:                                                                               
  The Challenge Cost Share Management Information System is used to monitor            
  project accomplishment. Each Region certifies that all CCS projects funded for       
  each fiscal year were completed and provides a summary report noting project         
  accomplishment.                                                                      
Audits:                                                                                
  None.                                                                                
Records:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                
Account Identification:                                                                
  14-1611-0-1-303.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  FY 07 $12,000,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not available.             
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  Cost share range per project is from $300 to $25,000. The average cost per           
  project is $7,800.                                                                   
                                                                                       
                                                                                  11-08
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  These projects focus on restoration of natural resources and/or the establishment
  or expansion of wildlife habitats with durable, lasting results; and/or wildlife-
  oriented recreational and education programs. In fiscal year 2003, more than
  1,400 partners provided approximately $10.5 million in dollars and in- kind
  matches. This effort indicates the importance of these conservation efforts by
  leveraging approximately $1.60 for every $1 in Federal funding for National
  Wildlife Reserve System projects.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  None.
Regional or Local Office:
  See Catalog Appendix IV for addresses.
Headquarters Office:
  Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior. Contact: Assistant
  Director, National Wildlife Refuge System, 4401 N. Fairfax Drive, Suite 670,
  Arlington, VA 22203. Telephone (703) 358-1744; Fax: (703) 358-2248.
Web Site Address:
  www.fws.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  A wide variety of projects focusing on conservation, protection, and
  enhancement of fish, wildlife and plants involving partners who provide a 1:1
  match.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Proposals are evaluated on the lasting affect on conservation, enhancement and
  protection. They will also be evaluated on scope of effect, number of partners
  involved, importance of resource values, feasibility, and cost effectiveness.
15.643 ALASKA MIGRATORY BIRD CO-MANAGEMENT
COUNCIL
   (AMBCC)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act of 1958, 16 U.S.C. 661 to 666C; Migratory
  Bird Treaty Act, 16 U.S.C. 703 et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  To facilitate and administer regional programs to involve subsistence hunters of
  migratory birds in the management and regulation of migratory birds.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds will be used to help offset travel, administrative and associated expenses
  required to establish a regional migratory bird subsistence program in keeping
  with the recently amended Migratory Bird Treaty. This regional program will
  become a part of the statewide (Alaska) and national migratory bird management
  program, for which the - Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) has responsibility.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Native American Organizations, Public nonprofit institutions/organizations,
  other public institutions/organizations, Federally Recognized Indian Tribal
  Governments, and Local governments.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Native American Organizations, Public nonprofit institutions/organizations,
  Federally recognized Indian Tribal Governments, local governments, and Alaska
  Native American Indians.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Awards are made on a non-competitive basis pursuant to the authorities
  mandated in the 1997 Migratory Bird Treaty Act Amendment Protocols.
  Applicant must complete the Standard Form (SF) 424, SF 424A and SF 424B.
Award Procedure:
  The Executive Officer for the Alaska Migratory Bird Co-Management Council
  reviews the applications and makes recommendations. The process ends with
  concurrence by the Service.
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Not applicable.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Renewals are available annually, and are based on available funding levels.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Not applicable.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
                                                                                  499
