  Awards must be spent during the approved period of performance of the grant         
  agreement.                                                                          
Reports:                                                                              
  Progress and financial status reports are to be submitted in accordance with        
  terms and conditions of the grant agreement. Additional reports, such as meeting    
  agendas and summaries, may be required.                                             
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised June 27,           
  2003) "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"           
  nonfederal entities that receive financial assistance of $500,000 or more in        
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that    
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal          
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted    
  in Circular A-133.                                                                  
Records:                                                                              
  Records for grants awarded to State and Local Governments will be maintained        
  in accordance with the provisions of 43 CFR Part 12, Subpart C, "Uniform            
  Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State          
  and Local Governments." Records for grants awarded to institutions of higher        
  education and other nonprofit organizations will be maintained in accordance        
  with the provisions of 43 CFR Part 12, Subpart F, "Uniform Administrative           
  Requirements for Grants and Agreements With Institutions of Higher Education,       
  Hospitals, and Other Nonprofit Organizations."                                      
Account Identification:                                                               
  14-1611-0-1-303.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  FY 07 $222,600; FY 08 $222,600; and FY 09 est $222,600.                             
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  $14,000 to $ 26,500.                                                                
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  Regional management bodies have been established and maintained with semi-          
  annual meetings held to provide vital local input to the Alaska Migratory Bird      
  Co-Management Council. Council representatives were elected by the regional         
  management bodies. Travel has been supported for regional representatives to        
  attend Alaska Migratory Bird Co-Management Council and committee                    
  meetings, as well as represent the program at national Flyway Council and Fish      
  and Wildlife Service Regulations Committee meetings. Outreach activities have       
  been sponsored to reach the rural villages within the region.                       
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Grants will be administered in conformance with 43 CFR and the Fish and             
  Wildlife Service Administrative Manual.                                             
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  See Appendix IV for addresses.                                                      
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Office of the Alaska Migratory Bird Co-Management Council, Fish and Wildlife        
  Service, Donna Dewhurst, 1011 E. Tudor Road, MS 201, Anchorage, AK                  
  99503. Telephone: (907) 786-3499; Fax: 907-786-3641; E-mail:                        
  donna_dewhurst@fws.gov.                                                             
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://Alaska.fws.gov/ambcc/index.htm.                                              
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  15.608, Fish and Wildlife Management Assistance.                                    
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  The set-up and maintenance of 11 regional management bodies serving the             
  Alaska Migratory Bird Co-Management Council.                                        
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  You must be a regional partner organization of the council to be selected.          
  Criteria included, but is not limited to, past performance, ability to provide

                                                                                      
  administrative support, ability to send an elected representative from the regional 
  management body to meetings.                                                        
                                                                                      
15.644 FEDERAL JUNIOR DUCK STAMP CONSERVATION                                         
                                                                                      
AND DESIGN

                                                                                      
      (Junior Duck Stamp Contest)                                                     
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR                               
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Junior Duck Stamp Conservation and Design Program Act of 1994, Public Law           
  103-340, 108 Stat. 3119-3120, 16 U.S.C. 719; Reauthorization of the Junior          
  Duck Stamp Conservation and Design Program Act of 1994, Public Law 106-             
  316, 114 Stat. 1276, 16 U.S.C. 719.                                                 
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To use visual arts programs and a nation-wide art contest to teach students in      
  kindergarten through high school environmental science, wildlife management,        
  wetlands ecology, and the importance of habitat conservation.                       
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Direct Payments for Specified Use; Sale, Exchange, or Donation of Property and      
  Goods.                                                                              


500                                                                             11-08

USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Assistance may be used to: 1. provide awards and scholarships to students who
  submitted winning designs in State/Territory rounds of the Junior Duck Stamp
  Contest; 2. provide awards to schools and other program participants in order to
  promote the conservation goals of the program; and 3. cover program outreach
  and marketing costs. The Federal Duck Stamp Office provides cash awards
  intended for scholarship purposes to winners of the national round of the Junior
  Duck Stamp Contest.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Individual/Family. Students in kindergarten through twelfth grades attending a
  public, private, or home school in the United States and U.S. Territories are
  eligible to participate. A First Place winner of the national round of the Junior
  Duck Stamp Contest cannot submit an entry again for two years.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Individual/Family, Student/Trainee, Artist/Humanist, U.S. citizens, resident
  aliens, or nationals who are in kindergarten through twelfth grades at a public,
  private, or home school in the United States or U.S. territories.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Must be a student in kindergarten through twelfth grade and attend a public,
  private, or home school in the United States or U.S. Territory. Must verify that
  entry submitted is student's original artwork and grant the Fish and Wildlife
  Service permission to use, alter, publish and display artwork.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  An eligible student must submit a visual arts entry to the corresponding
  State/Territory Junior Duck Stamp Program coordinator. A student is limited to
  one entry per contest year. A completed and signed Federal Junior Duck Stamp
  Conservation and Design Entry form must be affixed to the back of the entry
  using glue or adhesive tape. If the student wishes to enter the conservation
  message contest as well, he or she must write an original message on this form.
Award Procedure:
  1. State/Territory rounds: An eligible entry is judged first in the home
  State/Territory contest of the submitting student. These contests are held in late
  March or early April. Entries are divided into four categories based on the
  grade-level of the submitting student and reviewed by a panel of five judges. In
  each State/Territory contest, Judges select three 1st place, three 2nd place, three
  3rd place, and sixteen honorable mention winners for each category. From
  among the twelve 1st place entries, the judges select a Best of Show entry to
  represent that State or Territory in the national round of the contest. In some
  State/Territory contests, the conservation messages written by the students and
  entered on their entry forms are also judged and awarded prizes. In mid-April,
  State/Territory coordinators present certificates to all participants and award
  prizes to the winners of this round. 2. National contest: State/Territory
  coordinators submit the Best of Show entries to the Federal Duck Stamp Office.
  In late April, these entries are judged in the national round of the contest by a
  panel of five judges. From among all State/Territory Best of Show entries, the
  judges select a winning entry to become the next Junior Duck Stamp. One 2nd
  place, one 3rd place, seven Top Ten, and 15 honorable mention entries are also
  selected. The judges select 1st, 2nd, and 3rd place conservation messages as
  well. In mid-May, the Federal Duck Stamp office awards prizes to the national
  contest winners.
Deadlines:
  Entries must be postmarked by midnight, March 15th of the corresponding
  contest year. Note: for South Carolina, entries must be postmarked by midnight,
  January 30th, and for Ohio, entries must be postmarked by midnight, March 1st
  of the corresponding contest year.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  State/Territory rounds: March-April. National round: April-May.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Not applicable.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Prizes are awarded within one year of contest win.
Reports:
  Not applicable.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that receive financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Not applicable.
Account Identification:
