  entries must be postmarked by midnight, March 1st of the corresponding contest      
  year. In addition to meeting eligibility requirements, entries are judged according 
  to the following criteria: biological and anatomical accuracy, habitat accuracy,    
  artistic composition, and suitability of design for reproduction as a stamp.        
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
15.645 MARINE TURTLE CONSERVATION FUND                                                
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR                               
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Marine Turtle Conservation Act of 2004, Public Law 108-266.                         
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To assist in the conservation of marine turtles and the nesting habitats of marine  
  turtles in foreign countries by supporting and providing financial resources for    
  projects to conserve the nesting habitats, conserve marine turtles in those         
  habitats, and address other threats to the survival of marine turtles.              
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Project work should occur in foreign countries (outside of the United States) that  
  have within their boundaries marine turtle nesting habitats and be conducted by     
  any person or group with the demonstrated expertise required for the                
  conservation of marine turtles. Applied research projects should address specific   
  management needs and actions. Funds provided under this program will not be         
  used for: the purchase of firearms or ammunitions; buying of intelligence           
  information or paying informants; gathering information by persons who conceal      
  their true identity; law enforcement operations that prompt suspects to carry out   
  illegal activities so they may be arrested (entrapment); or any activity that would 
  circumvent sanctions, laws or regulations of either the U.S. or the country in      
  which the activity would occur. Funds may not be used to provide material           
  support or resources to individuals, entities, or organizations of countries that   
  have been identified by the U.S. Department of State as state sponsors of           
  terrorism. The countries currently identified are: Cuba, Iran, North Korea,         
  Sudan and Syria. This program is administered in compliance with the Federal        
  Grants and Cooperative Agreements Act of 1977, as amended. These funds may          
  not be used towards training U.S. Federal Government personnel.                     
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Applications may be submitted by any government agency responsible for              
  conservation and protection of marine turtles and any other organization or         
  individual with demonstrated experience in marine turtle conservation.              
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Applications may be submitted by any government agency responsible for              
  conservation and protection of marine turtles and any other organization or         
  individual with demonstrated experience in marine turtle conservation.              
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  None.                                                                               
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                      
Application Procedure:                                                                
  The program announcement and application instructions for this program can be       
  found at the Grants.gov website. The Notice of Funding Availability and             
  Application Instructions are also located on the program website at                 
  http://www.fws.gov/international/animals/marineturtleprogram.htm. If you are        
  unable to access the Internet, hard copies are available upon request from the      
  Division of International Conservation, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 4401 N.     
  Fairfax Drive, Room 100, Arlington, Virginia 22203. A proposal will not be          
  considered complete if all required elements are not submitted as instructed.       
  U.S. applicants must submit (among other elements) a complete, signed               
  Standard Form 424 "Application for Federal Assistance".                             
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Projects are reviewed and competitively selected for funding based on               
  established criteria contained in the Marine Turtle Conservation Act of 2004        
  (Public Law 108-266). Review criteria can be found in the application               
  information at                                                                      
  http://www.fws.gov/international/animals/marineturtleprogram.htm. Once a            
  proposal has been selected for funding, an Assistance Award between the Fish        
  and Wildlife Service and the Recipient is drafted by the Division of International  
  Conservation. The draft Award is then submitted to the Division of Contracting      
  and Facilities Management (CFM) where it is executed by an FWS Contracting          
  Officer. Fully executed Awards are sent to the Recipient either electronically or   
  through the mail. The Division of International Conservation then administers       
  all other aspects of the Assistance Award.                                          
Deadlines:                                                                            
  This program has two annual deadlines. The first deadline is October 1 each         
  year. We strongly encourage applicants with nesting season projects beginning       
  April/May to submit proposals on or before the October 1 deadline. The second       
  deadline is April 1 each year. We strongly encourage applicants with nesting        
  season projects beginning September/October to submit proposals on or before        
  the April 1 deadline.                                                               
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   


502                                                                             11-08

  Decisions on funding of project proposals will be made within 180 days after the
   receipt of the project proposal.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  None. However; at the discretion of the Division of International Conservation,
  active awards can be modified, e.g.; time extensions or budget changes.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  To the extent possible, grant funds are matched by nonfederal funds. This
  program has no statutory formula. In determining whether to approve project
  proposals, preference is given to projects for which matching funds are
  available.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Awarded funds must be spent during the budget period that is approved for each
  Assistance Award, and in accordance with program financial and performance
  reporting procedures.
Reports:
  Progress and final reports are to be submitted in accordance with terms and
  conditions established in the Assistance Award. Complete reporting
  requirements can be found at the program web page at
  http://www.fws.gov/international/animals/marineturtleprogram.htm. For
  financial reporting, Domestic Recipients with no program income to report shall
  use Standard Form 269a. Domestic recipients with program income to report
  shall use Standard Form 269. Non-domestic Recipients shall submit a financial
  status report that follows the same format of the original project proposal budget
  table, itemizes expenditures for the reporting period any describes any deviations
  from the approved project budget.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance ($500,000 for fiscal years
  ending after December 1, 2003) or more a year in Federal awards will have a
  single or a program specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities
  that expend less than ($500,000 for fiscal years ending after Dec.1, 2003) a year
  in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Recipients will maintain records in accordance with the provisions of 43 CFR
  Part 12, Subpart C, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and
  Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments" and 43 CFR Part 12,
  Subpart F, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Agreements
  With Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other Nonprofit
  Organizations".
Account Identification:
  14-1652-0-1-303.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $621,000; FY 08 $906,000; and FY 09 est $216,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Variable amounts. Due to the limited funding available and the desire to support
  diverse projects, preference will be given to proposals requesting $50,000 or
  less. Higher amounts may be requested with appropriate justification.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY 2007 the Service funded 22 marine turtle conservation projects. A
  summary of each of those projects can be found at the program webpage at
  http://www.fws.gov/international/animals/marineturtleprogram.htm.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Awards will be administered in conformance with the "Assistance Award
  Guidelines" established by the Division of International Conservation, which
  uses as its source all applicable award terms and conditions found at
  http://www.doi.gov/pam/TermsandConditions.html. The "Assistance Award
  Guidelines" can be found on-line at
  http://www.fws.gov/international/grants/grants.html or in paper copy by
  contacting the Division of International Conservation at (703) 358-1754.
Regional or Local Office:
  Fish and Wildlife Service, University of West Georgia, Department of Biology,
  Carrollton, Georgia 30118-6300. Telephone: (770) 214-9293. Fax: (678) 839-
  6548.
Headquarters Office:
  Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior. Contact: Chief, Division
  of International Conservation, Room 100, 4401 N. Fairfax Drive, Arlington, VA
  22203. Telephone: (703) 358 1754. Fax: (703)358 2115. E-mail:
  MSCF_MarineTurtle@fws.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://international.fws.gov/grants/grants.html.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  15.619, Rhinoceros and Tiger Conservation Fund; 15.620, African Elephant
  Conservation Fund; 15.621, Asian Elephant Conservation Fund; 15.629, Great
  Apes Conservation Fund.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Annual summaries of the projects funded under this program can be found at
