  http://www.fws.gov/international/animals/marineturtleprogram.htm. Hard             
  copies of this information are available upon request from the Division of         
  Division of International Conservation at (703) 358-1754.                          
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Proposals will be reviewed on the basis of criteria developed from the Marine      
  Turtle Conservation Fund (Public Law 108-266). Due to the limited funding          
  available and the desire to support diverse projects, preference will be given to  
  proposals requesting $50,000 or less. Additional details on the selection criteria 
  can be found in the Marine Turtles Notice of Funding Availability and              
  Application Instructions at                                                        
  http://www.fws.gov/international/animals/marineturtleprogram.htm. Hard             
  copies are available upon request from the Division of International               
  Conservation at (703) 358-1754.                                                    
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
15.647 MIGRATORY BIRD CONSERVATION                                                   
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR                              
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Fish and Wildlife Act of 1956, as amended, 16 U.S.C. 742a-754; Fish and            
  Wildlife Coordination Act of 1958, 16 U.S.C.661-667(e); Fish and Wildlife          
  Conservation Act, 16 U.S.C. 2901-2911; and Migratory Bird Treaty Act, 16           
  U.S.C. 709a.                                                                       
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To maintain and enhance populations and habitats of migratory bird species         
  found in the Upper Midwest (IL, IN, IA, MI, MN, MO, OH, WI).                       
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants; Direct Payments for Specified Use.                                 
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Grants and payments may be used for the conservation of any bird species           
  protected by the Migratory Bird Treaty Act and occurring in the Fish and           
  Wildlife Service (FWS) Region 3 (Upper Midwest, including IL, IN, IA, MI,          
  MN, MO, OH, and WI). Special emphasis will be placed on the bird species           
  listed in USFWS Region 3's Fish and Wildlife Resource Conservation Priorities      
  document (http://www.fws.gov/midwest/News/documents/priority.pdf) as these         
  species are experiencing known or suspected population declines, are               
  recreationally important, or are causing biological or social conflicts.           
  Implementing national, regional, and flyway bird conservation plans, including     
  the Partners in Flight North American Landbird Conservation Plan                   
  (http://www.partnersinflight.org), U.S. Shorebird Conservation Plan                
  (http://shorebirdplan.fws.gov), North American Waterbird Conservation Plan         
  (http://www.waterbirdconservation.org), North American Waterfowl                   
  Management Plan (http://www.fws.gov/birdhabitat/NAWMP/index.shtm), and             
  Mississippi Flyway waterfowl management plans, is the FWS's highest priority,      
  and proposals related to the priorities identified in these plans and Bird         
  Conservation Region and state-level bird conservation planning efforts will        
  receive the greatest funding consideration. Proposals should address one or more   
  of the following activities: (a) Population surveys and monitoring to determine    
                                                                                     
  the status, trends, and distribution of bird species and groups of concern.

                                                                                     
  Emphasis will be placed on landscape-level applications of standardized

                                                                                     
  inventory and monitoring protocols (e.g., Breeding Bird Atlases, national

                                                                                     
  marshbird call playback surveys). Local-scale monitoring (e.g., local land

                                                                                     
  management units) activities will generally not be a focus of this grant program;

                                                                                     
  (b) Applied research, including studies of habitat requirements, limiting factors,

                                                                                     
  and population responses to habitat conservation activities; development of new

                                                                                     
  monitoring techniques and programs for poorly-surveyed species; and use of         
  Geographic Information Systems, bird habitat modeling, and similar tools to        
  identify bird habitat focus areas and further bird conservation planning efforts;  
  (c) Compilation of technical information, such as status reviews of bird species   
  of concern and development of habitat management and restoration guidelines.       
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Federal, State and local government agencies; Federally-recognized Indian Tribal   
  governments; private nonprofit institutions/organizations; and public nonprofit    
  institutions/organizations.                                                        
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Federal, State and local government agencies; Federally-recognized Indian Tribal   
  governments; private nonprofit institutions/organizations; public nonprofit        
  institutions/organizations; and general public.                                    
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  None.                                                                              
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.

                                                                                     
Application Procedure:

                                                                                     
  The standard SF 424 Application for Federal Assistance is required. A written

                                                                                     
  proposal should be submitted that includes: a title, justification (including

                                                                                     
  relevance to the Fish and Wildlife Service's priorities as outlined above),

                                                                                     
  objectives, methodology and study design, time frame, budget breakdown, and

                                                                                     
  list of cooperators and their contributions. Note that the FWS may circulate

                                                                                     
  proposals to others for review.

                                                                                     
Award Procedure:

                                                                                     
                                                                                11-08
  The Regional Migratory Bird Program Chief convenes a committee of FWS
  biologists to review, rank, and select proposals for funding. Once a proposal is
  accepted, a grant agreement is written and work can begin.
Deadlines:
  Contact the Regional Office for application deadlines. Funding decisions are
  made at least annually.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Decisions on funding of a proposal are usually made no later than 180 days after
  receipt of the proposal.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  A grant agreement may be modified at the discretion of the Regional Office.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Unless a project is extended, awarded funds must be spent during the approved
  Period of Performance of the grant agreement and in accordance with financial
  and reporting procedures specified in the agreement. Grants are normally
  written for a period of 1 to 5 years and payments can be made in a lump sum or
  on a periodic basis.
Reports:
  All projects and activities are monitored for progress and compliance with
  agreed upon scope of work. Written progress, final reports, and SF 269
  Financial Status Report on the project are generally required.
Audits:
  None.
Records:
  None.
Account Identification:
  14-1611-0-1-303.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $250,500; FY 08 est $365,800; and FY 09 est $200,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $7,600 to $41,800; $17,400 average in FY 08.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  USFWS Region 3 has provided small grants to cooperators for migratory bird
  conservation projects since the late 1980s. These projects have addressed the
  general activities outlined under the Uses section (070) above. The number of
  projects funded and dollars provided varies annually, depending upon annual
  appropriations and other program priorities. In FY 2007, Region 3 received 30
  proposals requesting $576,100 and was able to fund 9 of the proposals for
  $250,500. In FY 2008, Region 3 received 32 proposals requesting $583,400,
  and was able to fund 21 proposals for $365,800. In FY 2009, we estimate that a
  maximum of $200,000 will be available for small grants from the Region's
  migratory bird program budget.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  None.
Regional or Local Office:
  Steve Lewis, Division of Migratory Birds, Fish and Wildlife Service, 1 Federal
  Drive, Fort Snelling, MN 55111-4056; Telephone: (612) 713-5473; Fax: (612)
  713-5393; E-mail: steve_j_lewis@fws.gov. Sean Kelly, same address;
  Telephone: (612) 713-5470; Fax: (612) 713-5393; E-mail: sean_kelly@fws.gov.
Headquarters Office:
  None.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.fws.gov/midwest/midwestbird.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  15.637, Migratory Bird Joint Ventures.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Activities related to the implementation of national, regional, and flyway bird
  conservation plans, including the Partners in Flight North American Landbird
  Conservation Plan (http://www.partnersinflight.org), U.S. Shorebird
  Conservation Plan (http://shorebirdplan.fws.gov), North American Waterbird
  Conservation Plan (http://www.waterbirdconservation.org), North American
  Waterfowl Management Plan
  (http://www.fws.gov/birdhabitat/NAWMP/index.shtm), and Mississippi Flyway
  waterfowl management plans; population surveys and monitoring to determine
  the status, trends, and distribution of bird species and groups of concern; applied
  research, including studies of habitat requirements, limiting factors, and
  population responses to habitat conservation activities, development of new
  monitoring techniques for poorly-surveyed species, and use of Geographic
  Information Systems, bird habitat modeling, and similar tools to identify bird
  habitat focus areas; and compilation of technical information, such as status
  reviews and conservation plans for bird species of concern and development of
  habitat management and restoration guidelines.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Proposals will be reviewed to determine how well they address the migratory
  bird program priorities outlined above, including relevance to bird conservation
  plan priorities, Resource Conservation Priority species, and the bird
  conservation activities listed above. Proposals will also be evaluated for their
                                                                                    503
