  biological and statistical soundness, feasibility, geographic scope of                
  applicability, and cost effectiveness. Projects involving matching funds, in-kind     
  services, materials, and equipment from other agencies and organizations will be      
  given greater consideration for funding than similar projects without matching        
  resources.                                                                            
                                                                                        
                                                                                        
15.648 CENTRAL VALLEY PROJECT IMPROVEMENT

                                                                                        
(CVPI) ANADROMOUS FISH RESTORATION PROGRAM                                              
(AFRP)                                                                                  
                                                                                        
      (CVPI, AFRP)

                                                                                        
                                                                                        
FEDERAL AGENCY:

  FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR                                 
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                          
  Central Valley Project Improvement Act, Title 34, Public Law 102-575; Federal         
  Grant and Cooperative Agreement Act, Public Law 97-258, 31 U.S.C. 6301-               
  6308.                                                                                 
OBJECTIVES:                                                                             
  (a) To protect, restore, and enhance fish, wildlife, and associated habitats in the   
  Central Valley and Trinity River basins of California; (b) To address impacts of      
  the Central Valley Project on fish, wildlife and associated habitats; (c) To          
  improve the operational flexibility of the Central Valley Project; (d) To increase    
  water-related benefits provided by the Central Valley Project to the State of         
  California through expanded use of voluntary water transfers and improved             
  water conservation; (e) To contribute to the State of California's interim and        
  long-term efforts to protect the San Francisco Bay/Sacramento-San Joaquin             
  Delta Estuary; (f) To achieve a reasonable balance among competing demands            
  for use of Central Valley Project water, including the requirements of fish and       
                                                                                        
  wildlife, agricultural, municipal and industrial and power contractors.

                                                                                        
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:

                                                                                        
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).

                                                                                        
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

                                                                                        
  Funds may be used for research to improve management and increase

                                                                                        
  Anadromous fish resources; spawning area improvement; installation of fish

                                                                                        
  passages; construction of fish protection devices, and data collection.

                                                                                        
Applicant Eligibility:

                                                                                        
  Applicants may be State, local governments, Native American Organizations,

                                                                                        
  other public nonprofit institutions/organizations, private nonprofit/organization.

                                                                                        
  No other Federal agency may apply.

                                                                                        
Beneficiary Eligibility:

                                                                                        
  General public.

Credentials/Documentation:                                                              
  None other than completion of the Standard Form 424 set.                              
Preapplication Coordination:                                                            
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                        
Application Procedure:                                                                  
  The application should include the project proposal and be submitted through          
  Grants.gov. The proposal contains the narrative description and budgetary             
  information of the project. Only information that is pertinent to the project         
  should be included. The project proposal should also indicate whether partial         
  funding of the project is practicable, and, if so, what specific portion(s) of the    
  project could be implemented with what level of funding. A project proposal that      
  is part of a longer term initiative will be considered, however, the proposed         
  project's objectives, benefits, and tasks must stand on their own, as there are no    
  assurances that additional funding would be awarded in subsequent years for           
  associated or complementary projects. An incomplete proposal will not be              
  considered for funding.                                                               
Award Procedure:                                                                        
  The successful applicant will be notified after selection and confirmation of         
  available funding. An applicant should not initiate a project in expectation of       
  USFWS funding, nor should they purchase materials or begin work until such            
                                                                                        
  time as they receive the final award document signed by an authorized Service

                                                                                        
  official.

                                                                                        
Deadlines:

                                                                                        
  The deadline will be publicized within the grants.gov announcement.

                                                                                        
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

  Awards are anticipated within 90 days or less.                                        
Appeals:                                                                                
  None.                                                                                 
Renewals:                                                                               
  Not applicable.                                                                       
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                      
  The matching requirement is based on the project. For specific information see        
  the Central Valley Project Improvement Act, Section 3406 Fish, Wildlife and           
  Habitat Restoration.                                                                  
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                  
  Project awards are generally from one to five years, depending on the complexity      
  of the project and availability of funds. The five year restriction on the length of

  time is due to the Period of Availability of Funds limited to the five (5) year rule.



504                                                                               11-08

Reports:
  The successful applicant shall submit a written progress report on the project on
  a quarterly basis in Adobe PDF or Microsoft Word format presenting the
  activities that occurred and provide a description of the project accomplishments
  during each quarter of the calendar year beginning with the quarter covering
  October through December. The reports shall be submitted within 30 days
  following the end of each quarter. Draft final performance reports are due no
  later than 60 days after completion of the project. Final reports will be due 30
  days after receipt of the program comments on the draft report. The successful
  applicant shall submit, within 90 calendar days of completion of the project, a
  final financial report. The successful applicant shall account for any real and
  personal property acquired with Federal funds or received from the Federal
  Government according to requirements of regulations referenced in the award.
  The final report will be provided in hardcopy using Adobe PDF or Microsoft
  Word format, and also an electronic copy.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance ($500,000 for fiscal years
  ending after Dec.1, 2003) or more a year in Federal awards will have a single or
  a program specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend
  less than ($500,000 for fiscal years ending after Dec.1, 2003) a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Records are required to be maintained for three years following submission of
  the final expenditure report.
Account Identification:
  14-1611-0-1-302.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $8,754,544; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $152,335.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Since 1995, the Anadromous Fish and Restoration Program (AFRP) within the
  Central Valley Project Improvement Act, has been pursuing program objectives
  by helping to design, fund and manage restoration actions, technical evaluations,
  and monitoring activities that focus on solving or better understanding a wide
  variety of problems faced by wild anadromous fish populations at all stages of
  their life cycles. Many of these projects stem directly from the list of proposed
  actions developed during the AFRP planning process; others have developed in
  response to new ideas proposed by a variety of program partners. AFRP-funded
  projects to improve habitat have included removal of artificial barriers to
  migration, installing or upgrading fish ladders, expanding and/or improving the
  quality of spawning grounds, improving salmon rearing and riparian habitat,
  developing and nurturing educational programs, investigating salmonid natural
  history, and acquiring permanent easements in floodplains and riparian
  corridors. To ensure project effectiveness, all projects include a monitoring
  component to document pre- and post- project conditions.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  None.
Regional or Local Office:
  Potential applicants may contact the local office at: Anadromous Fish
  Restoration Program Stockton Fish and Wildlife Service Office 4001 N. Wilson
  Way, Stockton, California 95205. Telephone: (209) 946-6400, Fax (209) 946-
  6355.
Headquarters Office:
  CNO- California Nevada Office, 2800 Cottage Way, Room W-2606,
  Sacramento, California 95825. Telephone (916) 414-6464.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.delta.dfg.ca.gov/afrp/title34.asp#top .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  11.405, Anadromous Fish Conservation Act Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Restoration action on Butte and Big Chico Creeks for spring-run salmon;
  Evaluate the distribution and relationship of resident and anadromous life
  history types of rainbow trout in the Central Valley; Comprehensive assessment
  of genetic population structure/diversity of Central Valley salmon; Lower
  Calaveras River Chinook salmon and steelhead life history limiting factors
  analysis; Cosumnes River salmonid barrier program.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Proposals will be reviewed by a team of Federal staff based on the following
  criteria: Addresses high priority need as described in the Request for Proposal
  (RFP) "Purposes and Funding Priorities"; Clearly stated goals, objectives,
  hypotheses, and relevance of idea; Approach is valid and technically sound;
  Primary Investigators and/or subcontractors record of performance and
  expertise; Budget is reasonable and provides good value for funds requested; and
  Cost sharing or in-kind contributions.
