15.649 SERVICE TRAINING AND TECHNICAL                                                 
                                                                                      
ASSISTANCE (GENERIC TRAINING)                                                         
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTRERIOR                              
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Fish and Wildlife Act of 1956 and the Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act, for       
  the development and implementation of programs for the benefit of fish and          
  wildlife species and their habitat (16 U.S.C. 661 and 742 et seq.), Fish and        
  Wildlife Improvement Act of 1978, as amended (16 U.S.C. 753).                       
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To assist in the conservation of the Nation's natural resources by supporting and   
  providing financial resources for training, meetings, workshops and conferences     
  to promote the public's conservation awareness.                                     
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                            
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Training and technical assistance are used to enhance public awareness and          
  understanding of natural resource conservation and preservation. Projects may       
  include natural resources related education, meetings, training, workshops, and     
  conferences. Details on funding opportunity can be found on www.Grants.gov.         
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Federal, State and local government agencies; Federally-recognized Tribal           
  governments; private nonprofit institutions/organizations; public nonprofit         
  institutions/ organizations.                                                        
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Federal, State and local government agencies; Federally-recognized Tribal           
  governments; private nonprofit institutions/organizations; public nonprofit         
  institutions/ organizations; general public.                                        
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  None.                                                                               
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  Discussions regarding funding availability and program interest are strongly        
  encouraged (see www.Grants.gov/FIND and http://www.fws.gov/offices/). This          
  program is excluded from coverage under E.O.12372.                                  
Application Procedure:                                                                
  A Standard Form (SF)424 and a written proposal should be submitted through          
  Grants.gov or via hardcopy to the project office and include: a title, justification
  (including relevance to the Fish and Wildlife Service's priorities as outlined      
  above), objectives, timeframe, and a budget breakdown. Note that the USFWS          
  may circulate proposals to others for review. All Service financial assistance

  discretionary funding opportunities will be posted on www.Grants.gov.               
Award Procedure:

  Notification of an award is the issuance of a grant or cooperative agreement        
  document by Awarding Official.                                                      
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Deadline varies depending on the funding opportunity announcements.                 
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  This will vary based on the funding opportunity and will range between 3 and 6      
  months.                                                                             
Appeals:                                                                              
  Applicant may revise and resubmit proposal for consideration.                       
Renewals:                                                                             
  Not applicable. Projects are for a specified duration as identified in each award.  
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Applicant cost-share requirements will vary based on the nature of the              
  opportunity, but are highly encouraged and applicants should refer to the           
  individual funding announcement for details on these requirements.                  
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  None.                                                                               
Reports:                                                                              
  All projects and activities are monitored for progress and compliance with          
  agreed upon scope of work. Written progress and final reports on the project are    
  generally required.                                                                 
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June          
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"      
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance $500,000 (for fiscal years     
  ending after December 1, 2003) or more a year in Federal awards will have a         
  single or a program specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entitites    
  that expend less than $500,000 (for fiscal years ending after December 1, 2003)     
  a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that        
  year, except as noted in Circular A-133.                                            
Records:                                                                              
  Recipients will maintain records in accordance with the provisions of 43 CFR        
  Part 12, Subpart C, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and             
  Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments" and 43 CFR Part 12,          
  Subpart F, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Agreements           
  With Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other Nonprofit               
  Organizations."                                                                     
                                                                                      
                                                                                 11-08
Account Identification:
  14-1611-0-1-303.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $156,032; FY 08 $91,000; and FY 09 est $150,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Estimated range is $1000 to $500,000 with an average of $10,000 to $50,000
  per award of financial assistance funding. Specific funding information is
  available in funding announcement through www.Grants.gov.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In Fiscal Year 2004, the Fish and Wildlife Service awarded a total of 2,527
  actions totaling $149,000,000 in grants and cooperative agreements. It is
  anticipated that the awards issued under this CFDA will be a small percentage of
  the overall action and award totals. All Service financial assistance funding
  opportunities will be posted on www.Grants.gov.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Guidelines and literature on the Fish and Wildlife Service programs, including
  its Guide for Submission of Unsolicited Proposals is available at: http://fws.gov
  and http://www.fws.gov/contracts/index.html. Federal financial assistance
  regulations and relevant OMB circulars are located at
  http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/circulars/index.html,
  http://www.doi.gov/pam/financialassistance.html.
Regional or Local Office:
  Contact Information related to each funding opportunity will be stated in each
  announcement. Or visit website http://www.fws.gov/contracts/index.html.
Headquarters Office:
  Chief, Division of Administration and Information Management, Wildlife and
  Sport Fish Restoration Programs, 4401 North Fairfax Drive, FA-4020,
  Arlington, Virginia 22203. Awards are not centrally managed or coordinated.
  Awards are made in all Regional, Local, and the Washington Offices. Refer to
  Regional Office contacts at: http://www.fws.gov/org/html.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.fws.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Workshop - Pheasants Forever; Midwest Conservation Internship.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Programs within the Fish and Wildlife Service will review and evaluate all
  applications consistent with authorized Fish and Wildlife Service program
  purposes.
15.650 RESEARCH GRANTS (GENERIC)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Fish and Wildlife Improvement Act of 1978, as amended (16 U.S.C. 753), Land
  and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965, as amended (16 U.S.C. 4601-4
  through 11), Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531-1543).
OBJECTIVES:
  To assist in the conservation of the Nation's natural resources by providing
  financial assistance for land management, research, and data collection/analysis
  to further the preservation of natural resources.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Research grants will be used for improving scientific support for natural
  resource management, to enhance public awareness and understanding of natural
  resource conservation and preservation. Projects may include land management
  practices; literature research, data/information analysis and dissemination
  improving scientific support for natural resource management. Details on
  funding opportunities can be found on www.Grants.gov.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Federal, State and local government agencies; Federally-recognized Tribal
  governments; private nonprofit institutions/organizations; public nonprofit
  institutions/organizations.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Federal, State and local government agencies; Federally-recognized private
  nonprofit institutions/organizations; public nonprofit institutions/ organizations;
  general public.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Discussions regarding funding availability and program interest are strongly
  encouraged (see www.Grants.gov/FIND and http://www.fws.gov/offices/). This
  program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  A Standard Form (SF) 424 and a written proposal should be submitted through
  Grants.gov or via hardcopy to the project office and include: a title, justification
  (including relevance to the Fish and Wildlife Service's priorities as outlined
  above), objectives, timeframe, and a budget breakdown. Note, the USFWS may
                                                                                     505
