  circulate proposals to others for review. All Service financial assistance         
  discretionary funding opportunities will be posted on www.Grants.gov.              
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Notification of an aaward is by the issuance of a grant or cooperative agreement   
  document by Awarding Official.                                                     
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Deadlines vary depending on the funding opportunity announcements.                 
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  This will vary based on the funding opportunity and will range between 3 and 6     
  months.                                                                            
Appeals:                                                                             
  Applicants may revise and resubmit proposals for consideration.                    
Renewals:                                                                            
  Not applicable. Projects are for a specified duration as identified in each award. 
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Applicant cost-share requirements will vary based on the nature of the             
  opportunity, but are highly encouraged and applicants should refer to the          
  individual funding announcement for details on these requirements.                 
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  None.                                                                              
Reports:                                                                             
  All projects and activities are monitored for progress and compliance with         
  agreed upon scope of work. Written progress and final reports on the project are   
  generally required.                                                                
Audits:                                                                              
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular NO. A-133 (Revised, June         
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"     
  nonfederal entitites that expend financial assistance $500,000 (for fiscal years   
  ending after December 1, 2003) or more a year in Federal awards will have a        
  single or a program specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entitites   
  that expend less than $500,000 (for fiscal years ending after December 1, 2003)    
  a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that       
  year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.                                       
Records:                                                                             
  Recipients will maintain records in accordance with the provisions of 43 CFR       
  Part 12, Subpart C, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and            
  Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments" and 43 CFR Part 12,         
  Subpart F, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Agreements          
  With Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other Nonprofit              
  Organizations."                                                                    
Account Identification:                                                              
  14-1611-0-1-303.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Grants) FY 07 $0; FY 08 $50,000; and FY 09 est $50,000.                           
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  Estimated range is $1,000 to $500,000 with an average of $10,000 to $50,000        
  per award of financial assistance funding.                                         
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  In Fiscal Year 2004, the Fish and Wildlife Service awarded a total of 2,527        
  actions totaling $149,000,000 in grants and cooperative agreements. It is          
  anticipated that the awards issued under this CFDA will be a small percentage of   
  the overall action and award totals.                                               
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  Guidelines and literature on the Fish and Wildlife Service programs, including     
  its Guide for Submission of Unsolicited Proposals is available at: http://fws.gov  
  and http://www.fws.gov/contracts/index.html. Federal financial assistance          
  regulations and relevant OMB circulars are located at                              
  http://www.whitehouse,gov/omb/circulars/index.html,                                
  http://www.doi.gov/pam/financialassistance.html.                                   
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  Contact Information related to each funding opportunity will be stated in each     
  announcement. Or visit website: http://www.fws.gov/contracts/index.html.           
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Chief, Division of Contracting and Facilities Management, Washington Office        
  4401, North /Fairfax Drive, Mail Stop 7118-43, Arlington, VA 22203.                
  Telephone: (703) 358-1901.                                                         
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.fws.gov.                                                                
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  None.                                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  None.

                                                                                     
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

                                                                                     
  Programs within the Fish and Wildlife Service will review and evaluate all

                                                                                     
  applications consistent with authorized U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service program

                                                                                     
  purposes.

                                                                                     
                                                                                     
15.651 WILDLIFE WITHOUT BORDERS-AFRICA                                               
PROGRAM                                                                              
                                                                                     


506                                                                            11-08

FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended(16 U.S.C. 1531-43).
OBJECTIVES:
  To strengthen the ability of African institutions to manage and conserve species,
  habitats, and ecological process for the benefit of the people of Afican and the
  world. Of particular interests are projects that build the human and institutional
  capacity of effectively conserve and manage natural protected areas in Africa.
  Of particular interest are projects that provide training to: (1) Increase human
  and institutional capacity to mitigate the impact of extractive industries, climate
  change, human/wildlife conflict, illegal trade in bushmeat, and/or wildlife
  disease in and around protected areas; (2) Strengthen human and institutional
  capacity to administer protected areas by focusing on: human resource
  management, financial management, vehicle and facility maintenance, grant
  writing and project implementation, community outreach and education, conflict
  resolution, and coalition building; (3) Increase the capacity of universities,
  colleges or other institutions to deliver training programs on protected area
  management; and (4) Strengthen decision makers' knowledge of concepts
  relevant to protected area design, legislation, policy, and finance, and the
  importance of harmonizing these with other national sectoral policies; (5) Assess
  the capacity of protected areas and/or institutions responsible for their
  management.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Projects should take place in Africa. If work is to be conducted outside Africa,
  the proposal must explain how the proposed activities will further protected area
  conservation and management within Africa to be eligible for funding. The
  Division of International Conservation will not fund: the purchase of firearms or
  ammunitions; buying of intelligence information or paying informants;
  gathering information by persons who misrepresent their identity; law
  enforcement operations that prompt suspects to carry out illegal activities so they
  may be arrested (entrapment); or any activity that would circumvent sanctions,
  laws or regulations of either the U.S. or the country in which the activity would
  occur. This program is administered in compliance with the Federal Grant and
  Cooperative Agreement Act of 1977, as amended. These funds may not be used
  towards training Federal government personnel.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Federal, State and local government agencies; non-profit, non-governmental
  organizations; and public and private institutions of higher education, or any of
  the stated associate entities on behalf of an eligible individual.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Federal, State and local government. agencies; nonprofit, non-governmental
  organizations; and public and private institutions of higher education. All
  recipients, both individual and institutional, must have a bank account and have
  the ability to receive funds directly.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  The program announcement and application instructions for this program can be
  found at the Grants.gov website: http://www.grants.gov/search/basic.do.
  Complete application information can also be found at
  http://www.fws.gov/international/dicprograms/africa_program.htm, or, if unable
  to access the website, by requesting a paper copy from the Division of
  International Conservation, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 4401 N. Fairfax
  Drive, Room 100, Arlington, VA 22203, Telephone: (703) 358-1754. A
  proposal will not be considered complete if all required elements are not
  submitted as instructed. U.S. applicants must submit (among other elements) a
  complete, signed Standard Form 424 Application for Federal Assistance.
Award Procedure:
  Projects are reviewed and competitively selected for funding based on
  established criteria. Review criteria can be found in the application information
  at http://www.fws.gov/international/dicprograms/africa_program.htm. Once a
  proposal has been selected for funding, an Assistance Award between the Fish
  and Wildlife Service and the Recipient is drafted by the Division of International
  Conservation. The draft Award is then submitted to the Division of Contracting
  and Facilities Management (CFM)where it is executed by an FWS Contracting
  Officer. Fully executed Awards are sent to the Recipient either electronically or
  through the mail. The Division of International Conservation then administers
  all other aspects of the Assistance Award.
Deadlines:
  For fiscal year 2009 proposals must be submitted to the Fish and Wildlife
  Service on or before June 15, 2009.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Decisions on funding of project proposals are normally made no later than 180
  days after the receipt of the project proposals.
Appeals:
