Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                     
  Awards are anticipated within 90 days or less.                                        
Appeals:                                                                                
  Not applicable.                                                                       
Renewals:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                 
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                      
  This program has no statutory formula.                                                
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                  
  Project awards are generally from one to five years, depending on the complexity      
  of the project and availability of funds. The five year restriction on the length of  
  time is due to the period of availability of funds, which is limited to the five-year 
  rule.                                                                                 
Reports:                                                                                
  Recipients of funding are required to submit quarterly financial reports using        
  form SF-269, and semi-annual performance reports 30 days following the end of         
  each reporting period. All projects and activities are monitored for progress and     
  compliance with the agreed upon scope of work. Final performance and                  
  financial reports are due 120 days after the end date of the grant performance        
  reports.                                                                              
Audits:                                                                                 
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,            
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"            
  nonfederal entities that expend Financial assistance of $500,000 or more in           
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that      
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal            
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted      
  in Circular A-133.                                                                    
Records:                                                                                
  Records are required to be maintained for three years following submission of         
  the final expenditure report.                                                         
Account Identification:                                                                 
  14-1611-0-1-303.                                                                      
Obligations:                                                                            
  FY 07 not available; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.             
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                              
  $3,000 to $25,000; $5,500.                                                            
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                
  Fish and Wildlife Service has worked in conjunction with private, State, county       
  and local governments to jointly address issues surrounding undesirable plant         
  species.                                                                              
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                
  None.                                                                                 
Regional or Local Office:                                                               
  Not applicable.                                                                       
Headquarters Office:                                                                    
  U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, U.S. Department of the Interior. Contact:             
  Assistant Director, National Wildlife Refuge System, 4401 N. Fairfax Drive,           
  Suite 670, Arlington, VA 22203. Telephone: (703) 358-1744; Fax: (703) 358-            
  2248.                                                                                 
Web Site Address:                                                                       
  http://www.fws.gov .                                                                  
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                       
  None.                                                                                 
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                            
  Award to Jackson County Noxious Weed Management and Arapaho NWR                       
  ($3,300); awards to Ravalli County Weed District and Charles M. Russell NWR           
  ($14,400).                                                                            
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                       
  Proposals are evaluated on the basis of lasting effect on conservation,               
  preservation, wildlife and their habitats.                                            
                                                                                        
15.653 NATIONAL OUTREACH AND COMMUNICATION                                              
PROGRAM                                                                                 
                                                                                        
      (NOC )                                                                            
                                                                                        
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                         
  FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR                                 
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                          
  Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century 1998, Public Law 105-178, 112          
  Stat. 107, 23 U.S.C. 101, Sportfishing and Boating Safety Act of 1998, Section        
  7402, Public Law 105-178, Subtitle D.                                                 
OBJECTIVES:                                                                             
  To improve communications with anglers, boaters, and the general public               
  regarding angling and boating opportunities, to reduce barriers to participation      
  in these activities, to advance adoption of sound fishing and boating practices, to   
  promote conservation and the responsible use of the nation's aquatic resources,       
  and to further safety in fishing and boating.                                         
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                    
  Project Grants.

508                                                                               11-08

USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Project work should occur within the scope of the Strategic Plan for the
  Outreach and Communication Program as required by the Sportfishing and
  Boating Safety Act of 1998, or if work is to be conducted outside of the range,
  the proposal should show a clear relevance to the Strategic Plan. Applied
  research projects should address specific management needs and actions.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Participation limited to applicant with expertise to conduct work within the
  scope of the Strategic Plan for the Outreach and Communication Program as
  required by the Sportfishing and Boating Safety Act of 1998, or if work is to be
  conducted outside of the range, the proposal should show a clear relevance to the
  Strategic Plan.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Anyone/General Public.
Credentials/Documentation:
  To apply for grant funds, the applicant must provide documentation of
  marketing expertise in Sport fishing and Boat Safety and submit an online
  application through Grants.gov.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applications may be submitted online using Grants.gov and must contain the
  information and meet the requirements outlined in the Program Guidelines and
  Application Kit. The standard application forms including the SF 424 as
  furnished by the Federal agency will be used for this program.
Award Procedure:
  Funding recommendations, based upon a process outlined in the funding
  announcements, will be forwarded to the Awarding Official. Applicants will be
  notified by Awarding Official.
Deadlines:
  Submission dates will be detailed in the funding announcement posted on the
  Grants.gov website.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Within 120 days.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program does not have statutory matching requirements, but does
  encourage matching funds or in-kind contributions.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grants and cooperative agreements will normally be awarded in, but not
  restricted to, 12-month budget periods.
Reports:
  The recipient shall submit quarterly progress reports detailing activities for the
  reporting periods. An SF 269 will be submitted with the quarterly report
  detailing expenditures made during the period. An annual report is to be
  submitted summarizing accomplishments, as well as, include an explanation of
  any milestones not accomplished, and one copy of all printed products and news
  articles published about the project. A final report is to be submitted
  summarizing accomplishments, as well as, include an explanation of any
  milestones not accomplished.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal Awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  All records must be maintained for three years after submission of the financial
  report.
Account Identification:
  14-8151-0-7-303.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $12,000,000; FY 08 $13,400,000; and FY 09 est $13,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  The previous FY average award was $12,000,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Awards under the National Outreach and Communication Program supported
  boating, fishing and aquatic demographics research; workshops to assist State
  agencies with marketing plans; and other education and public safety activities.
  The number of projects identified and funded annually varies depending on
  program priorities and funds availability.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Guidelines and literature on the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service programs is
  available at: http://fws.gov and http://www.fws.gov/contracts/index.html .
  Federal financial assistance regulations and relevant OMB circulars are located
