  address one or more of the following activities: a)Population surveys and          
  monitoring to determine the status, trends, and distribution of bird species and   
  groups of concern. Emphasis will be placed on landscape-level applications of      
  standardized inventory and monitoring protocols (e.g., Breeding Bird Atlases,      
  national marshbird call playblack surveys). Local-scale monitoring (e.g., local    
  land management units) activities will generally not be a focus of this program;   
  b) Applied research, including but not limited to, studies of habitat              
  requirements, limiting factors, and population responses to habitat conservation   
  activities; development of new monitoring techniques and programs for poorly-      
  surveyed species; and use of Geographic Information Systems, bird habitat          
  modeling, and similar tools to identify bird habitat focus areas and further bird  
  conservation planning efforts; c) Compilation of technical information, such as    
  status reviews fo bird species of concern, development of habitat management       
  and restoration guidelines, and other outreach and education tools. Habitat        
  management projects are generally not covered under this program.                  
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Federal; Interstate; Intrastate; State; Local; including Tribal Government; Public 
  Nonprofit Institution/Organization; Other Public Institution/Organization;         
  Federally Recognized Tribal Government; U.S. Territory or Possession;              
  Institutions of Higher Education including Public Private, State College,          
  University, Junior, and Community College; Indvididual/Family; Specialized         
  Group; Small Business; Profit Organization; Private Nonprofit                      
  Institution/Organization; Quasi-Public Nonprofit Institution/Organization; Other   
  Private Institution/Organization; or Native American Organization.                 
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Federal; Interstate; Intrastate; State; Local; including Tribal Government; Public 
  Nonprofit Institution/Organization; Other Public Institution/Organization;         
  Federally Recognized Tribal Government; U.S. Territory or Possession;              
  Institutions of Higher Education including Public Private, State College,          
  University, Junior, and Community College; Indvididual/Family; Specialized         
  Group; Small Business; Profit Organization; Private Nonprofit                      
  Institution/Organization; Quasi-Public Nonprofit Institution/Organization; Other   
  Private Institution/Organization; Anyone/General Public; Native American           
  Organization; Education Professional; Student/Trainee; Graduate Student;           
  Scientist/Researcher; Builder/Contractor/Developer;                                
  Farmer/Rancher/Agriculture Producer; or Land/Property Owner.                       
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  None.                                                                              
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                           
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Projects and informal or formal proposals may be requested by the Regional or      
  National Migratory Bird Program office direclty from appropriate eligible          
  applicants. These funding opportunities will be posted at www.grants.gov and       
  will clearly outline the required forms or supplements(e.g. SF-424, full budget,   
  etc.). Unsolicited project proposals from eligible applicants may also be          
  submitted for consideration to Regional or National offices. Projects may also     
  be mutually developed by the Regional or National office and appropriate           
  eligible applicants. All projects contain mutually agreed upon deliverables and    
  funding.                                                                           
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  The Migratory Bird Program Chief reviews and approves conservation projects        
  based on proposals meeting the objectives. Once a proposal is accepted and         
  mutually agreed upon deliverables and funding are approved, a formal               
  agreement is written. Upon signing both parties, work can begin.                   
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Deadlines vary according to the funding opportunity announcements.                 
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Decisions on funding a proposal are usually made no later than 180 days after      
  receipt of the proposal. However, funding opportunities may present themselves     
  at a later opportunity at which time projects may be reconsidered.                 
Appeals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  An award may be modified at the discretion of the issuing Regional or National     
  office.                                                                            
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  None.                                                                              
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  The period of performance of awards will vary based on the funding opportunity     
  and appropriations.

Reports:                                                                             
  All projects and activities are monitored for progress and compliance with

  agreed upon scope of work. Written progress reports are generally required.        
  Financial reports using form SF-269 and final performance reports on the project   
  are required. Details for project reporting are contained in the final project

  agreements. All project reports may be evaluated and reviewed by project           
  supervisor and his or her apointees, including but not limited to outside sources  
  such as other appropriate federal staff at national and regional levels, state and 
  local government employees, and other individuals with project area expertise,     


510                                                                            11-08

  to insure quality and fulfillment of obligation.
Audits:
  Applicants agree to give the sponsoring agency, the Comptroller General or
  other authorized audit agency access to and the right to examine records related
  to the award. Awards to educational institutions and nonprofit organizations are
  subject to the audit requirements of OMB Circular No. A-110, or superceding
  regulations if required by the agency. In accordance with the provisions of
  OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local
  Governments, an Nonprofit Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend
  financial assistance $500,000 (for fiscal years ending after Dec. 1, 2003) or
  more a year in Federal awards will have a single or program specific audit
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 (for
  fiscal years ending after Dec. 1, 2003) a year in Federal awards are exempt from
  Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular A-133.
Records:
  Recipients will maintain records in accordance with the provisions of 43 CFR
  Part 12 C, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grans and Cooperative
  Agreements to State and Local Goverments" and 43 CFR Part 12, Subpart F,
  "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements
  With Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other Nonprofit
  Organizations."
Account Identification:
  14-1611-0-1-303.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $2,278,500; FY 08 est $2,205,000; and FY 09 est $1,908,600.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $500 to $1,000,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  USFWS Regional Migratory Bird offices have provided monetary assistance to
  recipients for migratory bird conservation projects since the late 1980s. These
  projects have addressed the general activities outlined under the Uses section
  above. The number of projects funded and dollars provided varies annually,
  depending upon annual appropriations and other program priorities.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Additional information about the Federal financial assistance regulations and
  relevant OMB circulars is located on
  http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/circulars/index.html. Guidelines and literature
  on the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service programs is located at
  htt://www.fws.gov/migratorybirds/.
Regional or Local Office:
  Additional information is available from Regional and National Migratory Bird
  Offices as listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.
Headquarters Office:
  None.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.fws.gov/migratorybirds/.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  15.635, Neotropical Migratory Bird Conservation; 15.637, Migratory Bird Joint
  Ventures; 15.642, Challenge Cost Share; 15.647, Migratory Bird Conservation;
  15.649, Service Training and Technical Assistance (Generic Training); 15.650,
  Research Grants (Generic); 15.812, Cooperative Research Units Program;
  47.074, Biological Sciences.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Aerial Surveys of Waterfowl and other Migratory Birds in the Central and
  Western Artic ($46,300); Analysis of Banding Data ($95,000); Assessment of
  Buff-breasted Sandpiper Toxicology Levels during migration ($118,000).
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Projects will be reviewed to determine how well they address the migratory bird
  program priorities outlined above, including relevance to bird conservation plan
  priorities, conservation and management priority species, and the bird
  conservation activities listed above. Projects will also be evaluated for their
  biological and statistical soundness, feasibility, geographic scope of
  applicability, and cost effectiveness. Projects may also be evaluated and
  reviewed by outside sources including but not limited to other appropriate
  federal staff at national and regional levels, state and local government
  employees, and other individuals with project area expertise before selection is
  approved to insure cost effectiveness, biological and statistical methodology, and
  feasibility. Projects involving matching funds, in-kind services, materials, and
  equipment from other agencies and organizations may be given greater
  consideration for funding than similar projects without matching resources.
15.805 ASSISTANCE TO STATE WATER RESOURCES
RESEARCH INSTITUTES
   (Water Research Institute Program)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  GEOLOGICAL SURVEY, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Water Resources Research Act of 1984, Section 104, Public Law 98-242 as
