  amended, 42 U.S.C. 10301 et seq.                                                    
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To provide financial support to Water Resources Research Institutes located at      
  designated State universities in each of the 50 States, Puerto Rico, the District of
  Columbia, Guam, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of             
  the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Federated States of Micronesia for            
  research, information transfer and student training on one or more aspects of       
  priority water problems.                                                            
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Formula Grants; Project Grants.                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  This is a mandatory grant program to provide the State institutes with funds to     
  support a State and regional program of water resources research and                
  information transfer. This may include basic or applied research, setting up        
  conferences to discuss research needs or results, conduct of research,              
  information dissemination, and training of students as a byproduct of research.     
  In general the funds are used to study regional, State, or local water problems,    
  but the results may often have national significance. Federal funds cannot be       
  used for (1) formal instructional activities and general education, and (2) the     
  cost of permanent buildings, either directly or indirectly.                         
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  One University Water Research Institute is authorized in each State and other       
  jurisdictions specified in Section 104. Other colleges and universities within a    
  State are encouraged to participate in the program in cooperation with the          
  designated institute.                                                               
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Researchers at qualified universities and colleges in the State through the         
  designated institute for the State.                                                 
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Proposed Research and Information Transfer Program application responsive to        
  instructions issued by the U.S. Geological Survey.                                  
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  Requires each Institute to collaborate with State interests in defining research    
  priorities and to coordinate with other institutes in region to avoid duplication of
  effort. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                    
Application Procedure:                                                                
  This program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110 and the         
  Department of the Interior regulations at 43 CFR Part 401, Subpart C. State         
  institutes must submit proposed annual programs on the Internet at                  
  https://niwr.net, as required by the individual program announcement.               
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Geological Survey approves or rejects, in part or as a whole, the program           
  submitted by each State institute. The State institutes are notified of any         
  amendments necessary to obtain Geological Survey approval.

Deadlines:                                                                            
  For fiscal year 2009, applications under the formula grant portion must be filed

  on the Internet at https://niwr.net not later than January 15, 2009.                
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  90 days.                                                                            
Appeals:                                                                              
  Deficiencies noted by the U.S. Geological Survey can normally be corrected by       
  the State institutes.                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Amount to each State Water Research Institute under the formula grant is on a       
  basis of one Federal share to not less than two nonfederal shares for fiscal year   
  2008.                                                                               
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Assistance is on fiscal year basis. Payments are advanced at least quarterly upon   
  application and consistent with Financial Plan submitted previously by institute    
  for use of grant.                                                                   
Reports:                                                                              
  Each State institute makes a final report on accomplishments with grant,            
  including synopses of research projects.                                            
Audits:                                                                               
  Applicants agree to give the sponsoring agency, the Comptroller General or          
  other authorized audit agency access to and the right to examine records related    
  to the award. Awards to educational institutions and nonprofit organizations are    
  subject to the audit requirements of OMB Circular No. A-110, or superseding         
  regulations. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133            
  (Revised, June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit      
  Organizations", nonfederal entities that receive financial assistance of $500,000   
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit            
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 or      
  more in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that          
  year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.                                        
                                                                                      
Records:

                                                                                      
  Directors of the State institutes are responsible for conduct of programs and

                                                                                      
  maintaining books and records reflecting financial and technical transactions of

                                                                                      


                                                                                 11-08
  the program. Records shall be retained and made available for audit for three
  years after allottee's last disbursement of funds.
Account Identification:
  14-0804-0-1-306.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $5,171,000; FY 08 $5,985,179; and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $92,335 to $277,005, $95,755 under the formula grant program; $61,312 to
  $242,508, $162,883 under the competitive grant program.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In fiscal years 2007 and 2008, 54 applications were received and approved under
  the formula grant portion of the program. In fiscal year 2007, approximately 60
  applications were received under the competitive grant portion of the program
  and 5 grants were awarded using FY 08 funds. Proposals were not sought under
  the competitive grant program in fiscal year 2008.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Rule, 30 CFR Part 401, 50 FR 27203, June 7, 1993; U.S. Geological Survey
  Request for Applications under the Water Resources Research Institute Grant
  Program (Section 104), Announcement 06HQPA0002, October 2007 at
  https://niwr.net.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of the Interior, Geological Survey, MS 424 National Center, Reston,
  VA 20192. Contact: John Schefter, Chief, Office of External Research.
  Telephone: (703) 648-6800. Fax: (703) 648-5070. Email: schefter@usgs.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://water.usgs.gov/wrri/.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Examples include: Model Development for Conjunctive Use Planning and
  Aquifer Protection in Semi-arid Regions; Assessing the Effectiveness of Local
  Water Institutions in Water Management; Characterizing sources and growth
  potential of indicator bacteria in cold region streams; Treatment of Nitrate in
  Groundwater with Autotrophic Bioreactors; Imperial Valley Agriculture and
  Water: A Regional Economic Analysis; Mechanisms and Modeling of Soft-Bed
  Nutrient Release in Lakes; The Flow Dimension of Groundwater Resources in
  Northeastern Illinois. Descriptions of projects funded recently are provided on
  the Internet at http://water.usgs.gov/wrri/.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Relevance to announced priorities, technical merit, prospect of attaining
  objectives in period specified and potential for student training.
15.807 EARTHQUAKE HAZARDS REDUCTION PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  GEOLOGICAL SURVEY, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  42 U.S.C. 7701 et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  To support earthquake hazards research in order to develop information,
  knowledge, and methods relevant to the major Earthquake Hazards Program
  elements: national and regional earthquake hazards assessments; research related
  to earthquake information, monitoring, and notification; research on earthquake
  occurrence, physics, and effects; and earthquake safety policy. Specific
  objectives and research tasks identified as measures of progress towards the
  goals of these program elements are described in greater detail in the Research
  Priorities section of the annual Program Announcement.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Specific research objectives are identified in the annual program announcement.
  Applications for research projects not covered by one of the objectives are not
  solicited.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Colleges, universities, profit-making, and nonprofit organizations, and State and
  local governments may make application for support by a named principal
  investigator.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Research scientists, engineers, and the general public will ultimately benefit
  from the program.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Proposals must furnish evidence of the applicant's qualifications for performance
  of the proposed research.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  This program is subject to the Department of the Interior regulations at 43 CFR
  Part 12, Subparts C and D, or any subsequent revisions. The application
  requirements as contained in the announcement package and the above
                                                                                  511
