  regulations must be used for this program. Applications may be made only           
  through the internet site http//www.grants.gov. Links to USGS program              
  announcements are available through the internet site

  http://www.usgs.gov/contracts.                                                     
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Notification of an award is by a grant or cooperative agreement document signed    
  by a contracting officer.                                                          
Deadlines:                                                                           
  The application period for grants is generally open from mid-February until mid-   
  May each year. Deadline for proposals for funding in fiscal year 2009 was May      
  16, 2008.                                                                          
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  From 5 to 9 months.                                                                
Appeals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  No statutory requirement. Recipients are encouraged to share in the cost of each   
  research project.                                                                  
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Grants and cooperative agreements will normally be awarded in 12 or 36 month       
  budget periods.                                                                    
Reports:                                                                             
  Progress reports covering 12 months of activities and final technical and          
  financial reports are required, and must be submitted electronically as described  
  in the award package.                                                              
Audits:                                                                              
  Applicants agree to give the sponsoring agency, the Comptroller General or         
  other authorized audit agency access to and the right to examine records related   
  to the award. Awards to educational institutions and nonprofit organizations are   
  subject to the audit requirements of OMB Circular No. A-110, or superseding        
  regulations. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133           
  (Revised, June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit     
  Organizations", nonfederal entities that receive financial assistance of $500,000  
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program- specific audit          
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 or     
  more in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that         
  year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.                                       
Records:                                                                             
  All records must be maintained for 3 years after submission of the final financial 
  report.                                                                            
Account Identification:                                                              
  14-0804-0-1-306.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Grants and Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $12,800,000; FY 08 $13,138,000;          
  and FY 09 est $9,800,000.                                                          
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  $6,000 to 1,300,000; average $75,000.                                              
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  The National Earthquake Hazards Reduction Program has funded projects              
  covering recent tectonics and earthquake potential, research on earthquake         
  occurrence and effects, and evaluation of regional and urban earthquake hazards.   
  During fiscal year 2007, 92 out of 195 applications received funding.              
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  None.                                                                              
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Elizabeth Lemersal, External Research Support Manager, Earthquake Hazards          
  Program Office, Geologic Division, Geological Survey, 905 National Center,         
  Reston, VA 20192. Telephone: (703) 648-6701. Use same number for FTS. Fax:         
  (703) 648-6642. E-mail: gd-erp-coordinator@usgs.gov.                               
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://earthquake.usgs.gov/research/external/.                                     
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  47.041, Engineering Grants; 47.049, Mathematical and Physical Sciences;            
  47.050, Geosciences.                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  Source zone characteristics; Earthquake monitoring and forecasting                 
  experiments; Induced seismicity studies; and Fault zone studies; and Seismic       
  zonation and engineering studies.                                                  
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Panels composed of expert scientists and engineers drawn from government,          
  universities, and private industry evaluate all grant applications. Criteria for   
  judging applications includes: relevance and timeliness of the proposed research   
  to the goals of the program; technical quality of the proposal; competence of the  
  principal investigator and recipient organization; and appropriateness and         
  reasonableness of the budget.                                                      
                                                                                     




512                                                                            11-08

15.808 U.S. GEOLOGICAL SURVEY- RESEARCH AND
DATA COLLECTION
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  GEOLOGICAL SURVEY, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Organic Act of 1879, 43 U.S.C. 31, 43 U.S.C. 36c.
OBJECTIVES:
  To support research complementary to USGS program efforts in classification of
  the public lands and examination of the geological structure, water, mineral, and
  biological resources, and products of the national domain. This entry covers a
  variety of USGS assistance awards not covered by any other CFDA program
  entries. Awards are typically supported by funding from internal projects and
  programs, and funds are not separately budgeted or reserved for external projects
  or proposals under this entry.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Applications must be for scientific research projects which are within the
  Survey's area of responsibility. The majority of funds are used to support
  research that will enhance existing, long-term collaborative projects. Funds can
  be used for attendance at national conferences for the dissemination of project
  results. Further, conferences and symposia will be supported only if it is clear
  that equivalent results cannot be obtained at regular meetings of professional
  societies. Office furniture, office equipment, and foreign travel are not normally
  considered for support.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Profit organizations, public nonprofit institutions/organizations, private
  nonprofit institutions/organizations, and State and local governments may make
  application for support by a named principal investigator. Due to limited
  availability of funds to support new external projects, consultation with USGS is
  strongly recommended prior to submission of applications.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Profit organizations, public nonprofit institutions/organizations, private
  nonprofit institutions/organizations, and State and local governments, industry
  and public decision makers, research scientists, engineers, and the general public
  will ultimately benefit from knowledge gained under the program.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Proposals must furnish evidence of the applicant's qualifications for performance
  of the proposed research. Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB
  Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments; OMB Circular No. A-21 for
  educational institutions; OMB Circular No. A-122 for nonprofit organizations;
  and Federal Acquisition Regulation Subpart 31.2 for private firms, individuals,
  and other nonprofits excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-122.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Discussions regarding funding availability and program interest are strongly
  encouraged, as limited funding is available for new projects. This program is
  excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  These are typically individually evaluated and funded projects; there is no
  annual program announcement, prospectus or other invitation for applications.
  The standard application form SF 424 and other forms required by OMB
  Circular Nos. A-102 and A-110, or their successor(s), and the Department of the
  Interior regulation at 43 CFR Part 12, Subparts C and D, or its revisions, must be
  used. See also http://www.usgs.gov/contracts/grants/unsolbk.html.
Award Procedure:
  Notification of an award is by a grant or cooperative agreement document signed
  by a contracting officer.
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 3 to 6 months.
Appeals:
  Not applicable except that application may be revised and resubmitted.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Generally, no statutory requirement. Recipients are encouraged to share in the
  cost of each research project. Appropriations language requires cooperating
  State and local governments to contribute at least one-half the cost of certain
  cooperative water resources investigation and cooperative mapping projects.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grants and cooperative agreements will normally be awarded in, but not
  restricted to, 12 month budget periods.
Reports:
  Annual and final technical and financial reports are required.
Audits:
  Applicants agree to give the sponsoring agency, the Comptroller General or
  other authorized audit agency access to and the right to examine records related
  to the award. Awards to educational institutions and nonprofit organizations are
