  and outreach assistance; implementation of framework standards; strategic and       
  business plan development in support of the NSDI Future Directions Fifty States     
  Initiative; collaboration between organizations in the U.S. and Canada to           
  maintain and share geospatial data over a common geography; and assisting           
  organizations and consortia to develop and provide access to geospatial             
  information that serves community needs. See the FGDC website                       
  (http://www.fgdc.gov) for summaries of funded projects.                             
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Proposals will be evaluated through formal review panels. Proposals will be         
  evaluated on the quality and relevance of the project to the NSDI; the technical    
  approach taken to implement the project; the level and diversity of participation   
  and the applicant's experience and competence to perform the proposed effort        
  successfully; and the extent to which the applicant shows evidence of a             
  capability and willingness to continue and build upon the project when the          
  agreement period ends.                                                              
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
15.810 NATIONAL COOPERATIVE GEOLOGIC MAPPING                                          
PROGRAM                                                                               
      (STATEMAP and EDMAP)                                                            
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  GEOLOGICAL SURVEY, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR                                       
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  National Geologic Mapping Reauthorization Act of 1999, Public Law 106-148.          
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To produce geologic maps of areas in which knowledge of geology is important        
  to the economic, social, or scientific welfare of individual States. STATEMAP       
  supports: (1) projects which produce new geologic maps with attendant               
  explanatory information including correlation of map units, description of map      
  units and symbols, stratigraphic columns, geologic sections, and other pertinent    
  information; and (2) projects which compile existing geologic data in a digital     
  form at a scale of 1 to 100,000 for inclusion in the National Digital Geologic      
  Map Database. OBJECTIVES OF EDMAP: Provide funding for graduate                     
  students in academic research programs, through cooperative agreements, that        
  involve geologic mapping and scientific data analysis as major components;          
  expand research and educational capacity of graduate programs that teach earth      
  science students the techniques of geologic mapping and field data analysis; and    
  facilitate the publication and distribution of geologic maps generated in field-    
  based graduate academic research programs.                                          
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  STATEMAP Two types of projects are supported by this program: (1) those             
  which produce new geologic maps with attendant explanatory information, and         
  (2) those which compile existing geologic data in a digital form at a scale of 1 to 
  100,000 for inclusion in the National Geologic Map Database. Only one               
  application will be accepted from each State, however, each proposal can have       
  four sub- projects; three for new geologic mapping and one for compilation.         
  State proposals cannot include in-kind services by the Geological Survey. Travel    
  to meetings of professional societies is not an acceptable expense for the          
  program, nor are funds intended for the purchase of computer hardware,              
  software, or other nonexpendable property. EDMAP Only one cooperative               
  agreement will be awarded to each academic institution, but the agreement may       
  consist of more than one project, more than one faculty supervisor and several      
  students. Proposals cannot include a request for in-kind services by the            
  Geological Survey. Funds are not intended for the purchase of capital               
  equipment.                                                                          
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  STATEMAP program is restricted by statute to State geological surveys. Where        
  State surveys are organized under a State university system, an application may     
  be submitted by a State college or university on behalf of the State geological     
  survey. EDMAP program is restricted to universities with geoscience or related      
  departments or programs.                                                            
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  State geological surveys participating in this program and the general public will  
  ultimately benefit from this program.                                               
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Proposals for STATEMAP must include a letter of support from the State              
  Geologic Mapping Advisory Committee or equivalent to qualify for funding.           
  Proposals for EDMAP must include a letter of support from a State Geologist or      
  USGS Project Chief.                                                                 
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                      
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Proposals must include copies of letters of support, figures, tables, and           
  application form SF 424 and 424-B. Proposals including forms cannot exceed          
  35 pages for STATEMAP and 15 pages for EDMAP.                                       
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Notification of an award is by receipt of a cooperative agreement signed by a       


514                                                                             11-08

  contracting officer.
Deadlines:
  STATEMAP Each year the Requests for Proposals (RFP) will be distributed in
  early September. Applications must be received in early November (the exact
  date will be announced in the RFP). EDMAP Each year the Requests for
  Proposals (RFP) will be distributed in early September. Applications must be
  received in early November (the exact date will be announced in the RFP).
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  STATEMAP Approval/disapproval will be announced by mid-February.
  EDMAP Approval/disapproval will be announced by late February.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  STATEMAP Proposals must be submitted for a 1-year project period only.
  However, projects that were approved and funded during the previous fiscal year
  may be submitted as renewals (competing continuations). A completely new
  proposal subject to full review, must be submitted each year. EDMAP Proposals
  may be submitted which request performance periods of either 1 or 2 years.
  However, if approved the proposal will be funded for the first year only.
  Funding for year two will be determined through the annual competitive
  announcement.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The STATEMAP program is required by Public Law 106-148 to be carried out
  on a 1:1 matching basis; each recipient must match each Federal dollar with a
  nonfederal dollar. The nonfederal share may be contributions of services or cash
  provided to contractors to perform geologic mapping or other services directly
  applicable to proposed work on the project. The specific source(s) of the State
  contribution, such as State legislative appropriation, must be provided in the
  proposal. The EDMAP program is required by Public Law 106-148 to be
  carried out on a 1:1 matching basis; each recipient must match each Federal
  dollar with a nonfederal dollar. The nonfederal share may be a contribution of
  funds or services. Such services can include those related to the student research
  project or cash provided to contractors, i.e., field assistants to perform geologic
  mapping or other services directly applicable to proposed work on the project.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Cooperative agreements will normally be awarded in 12-month budget periods.
Reports:
  STATEMAP and EDMAP All deliverables (geologic maps and accompanying
  information) are due on or before the last day of the grant year. The recipient of
  the grant shall use Standard Form (SF) 270, Request for Advance or
  Reimbursement, to request payment under all resulting awards. The SF-270
  shall be submitted to the Administrative Contracting Officer (ACO) whose
  address will be identified in the award document. Submit the SF-270 no more
  frequently than quarterly. The recipient shall submit a completed SF-269A,
  Financial Status Report, to the ACO within ninety (90) days after the end of the
  performance period.
Audits:
  Applicants agree to give the sponsoring agency, the Comptroller General or
  other authorized audit agency access to and the right to examine records related
  to the award. Awards to educational institutions and nonprofit organizations are
  subject to the audit requirements of OMB Circular No. A-110, or superseding
  regulations. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133
  (Revised, June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations", nonfederal entities that receive financial assistance of $500,000
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 or
  more in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that
  year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  All records must be maintained for 3 years after submission of the final financial
  report.
Account Identification:
  14-0804-0-1-306.
Obligations:
  (STATEMAP) FY 07 $6,202,882; FY 08 $6,489,290; and FY 09 est
  $6,500,000. (EDMAP) FY 07 $480,431; FY 08 $492,365; and FY 09 est
  $490,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  STATEMAP The range of awards to State geological surveys in FY 08 was from
  $20,061 to $228,592. The average award in fiscal year 2007 was $147,883.
  EDMAP the range of awards to universities in fiscal year 2007 was from $5,881
  to $14,972 per student. The average award in fiscal year 2007 was $12,832. The
  maximum award allowed per student is $15,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In fiscal year 2007, 45 awards were made to State geological surveys which
  matched every federal dollar with a State dollar. EDMAP: In fiscal year 2007, a
  total of 58 students from 30 universities were funded. Each federal dollar was
  matched 1:1 by a university dollar.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  The program announcements are available on the Internet at
