  http://www.grants.gov and http://www.usgs.gov/contracts. The FY 2009              
  announcements will be available at this site by September of 2008.                
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  None.                                                                             
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Program Coordinator of the National Cooperative Geologic Mapping Program,         
  Randall C. Orndorff, Geological Survey, National Center 908, 12201 Sunrise        
  Valley Drive, Reston, VA 20192.                                                   
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  http://www.ncgmp.usgs.gov.                                                        
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  None.                                                                             
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  None.                                                                             
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                   
  The criteria for selecting proposals for both STATEMAP and EDMAP are              
  released in Geological Survey Program Announcements in mid summer and can         
  be obtained from Lydia Quintana, Geological Survey, National Center 908,          
  12201 Sunrise Valley Drive, Reston, VA 20192, or can be found at                  
  http://www.usgs.gov/contracts.                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
15.811 GAP ANALYSIS PROGRAM                                                         
   (GAP)                                                                            
                                                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     
  GEOLOGICAL SURVEY, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR                                     
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                      
  Endangered Species Act of 1973,16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq., Fish and Wildlife Act      
  of 1956, 16 U.S.C. 742 et seq., Fish and Wildlife Conservation Act, 16 U.S.C.     
  661 et seq., Omnibus appropriations Act, Public Law 108-7.                        
OBJECTIVES:                                                                         
  Studies where native animal species and natural plant communities occur and       
  identifies "gaps" in their representation to support conservation of biodiversity.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                
  Project Grants.

USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

  GAP is used by Federal agencies, State agencies and other governmental bodies

                                                                                    
  to develop land use or acquisition plans that incorporate information about the   
  presence and distribution of biodiversity. There are no use restrictions.

Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  Profit organizations, public nonprofit institutions/organizations, private        
  nonprofit institutions/organizations, and State and local governments may make    
  application for support by a named principal investigator.                        
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                            
  Profit organizations, public nonprofit institutions/organizations, private        
  nonprofit institutions/organizations, State and local governments, as well as the 
  general public will ultimately benefit from this program.                         
Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  None.                                                                             
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                    
Application Procedure:                                                              
  Application form SF-424, 424-A, and 424-B. Applications must be submitted         
  electronically through www.grants.gov.                                            
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  Notification of an award is by a cooperative agreement document signed by a       
  contracting officer.                                                              
Deadlines:                                                                          
  The application submission deadline is available on www.grants.gov .              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  The timeframe is available on www.grants.gov.                                     
Appeals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                             
Renewals:                                                                           
  None.                                                                             
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  None.                                                                             
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  Cooperative agreements will normally be awarded in 12 month budget periods.       
Reports:                                                                            
  Annual and final technical and financial reports are required.                    
Audits:                                                                             
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June

                                                                                    
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations",

                                                                                    
  nonfederal entities that receive financial assistance of $500,000 or more in      
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that  
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 or more in Federal       
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted  
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                            
Records:                                                                            
                                                                               11-08
  All records must be maintained for 3 years after submission of the final financial
  report.
Account Identification:
  14-0804-0-1-306.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $1,800,000; FY 08 est $2,100,000; and FY 09 est $1,500,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $23,745 to $462,197; Average of $98,713.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY 08, 13 cooperative agreements were awarded to carry out the GAP
  Analysis Program. The number of agreements in future years is expected to be
  similar.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  The program announcement is available on the Internet at
  http://www.gap.analysis.nbii.gov and www.grants.gov.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Program Coordinator of the National GAP Program, 530 S Asbury Suite 1,
  Moscow, ID 83843.
Web Site Address:
  http://gapanalysis.nbii.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  In FY 08, the project, "A distributed graduate seminar to analyze the priorities,
  obstacles and opportunities that exist for the implementation of the U.S. State
  Wildlife Action Plans" was funded. Please see website for additional projects
  and information.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Scientists within the Geological Survey will review and evaluate all applications
  submitted. Criteria for judging applications will include scientific excellence
  and relevance to the solution of important problems within the mission of the
  Geological Survey. Generally, applications will be funded only to the extent
  permitted by available funds.
15.812 COOPERATIVE RESEARCH UNITS PROGRAM
   (CRUP)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  GEOLOGICAL SURVEY, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Cooperative Research Units Act, Public Law 86-686, Sec. 1, Sept. 2, 1960, 74
  Stat. 733, as amended by the Fish and Wildlife Improvement Act of 1978, Public
  Law 95-616, Sec. 2, Nov. 8, 1978, 92 Stat. 3110.
OBJECTIVES:
  To work in partnership with States and universities to address the information
  needs of local, State, and Federal fish, wildlife, and natural resource agencies
  through research, technical assistance, and education.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Authority is limited to research with an educational component conducted
  through one of 40 Cooperative Fish and Wildlife Research Units and their host
  universities. Awards are limited to information needs related to fish, wildlife,
  ecology, and natural resources of interest to program cooperators and partners.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Universities hosting Cooperative Fish and Wildlife Research Units established
  under authority of the Cooperative Research Units Act of 1960.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Federal, State and local governments, industry and public decision makers,
  research scientists, State institutions of higher education, and the general public
  will ultimately benefit from the program.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Proposed research application responsive to the instructions issued by the
  USGS.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Requires each research project to be conducted in collaboration and cooperation
  with USGS personnel stationed at Cooperative Fish and Wildlife Research
  Units, and cooperating agency representatives. Discussions to determine interest
  and appropriateness of research projects for a Cooperative Fish and Wildlife
  Research Unit are required before proposals are submitted. This program is
  excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Application form Standard Form (SF) 424 must be used. This program is subject
  to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110, or its successor, and the
  Department of the Interior regulations at 43 CFR Part 401, Subpart C. The
  application requirements as contained in the announcement package and the
  above regulations must be used for this program. Applications may be made
  only through the internet site http://www.grants.gov.
                                                                                   515
