Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Notification of an award is by a Research Work Order document signed by a

                                                                                     
  contracting officer.

Deadlines:                                                                           
  Established annually.

Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Up to 3 months.                                                                    
Appeals:                                                                             
  Not applicable. The application may be revised and resubmitted.                    
Renewals:                                                                            
  None. All projects have a limited duration, not to exceed 5 years.                 
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  This program has no statutory formula.                                             
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Project duration may not exceed 5 years. Funds are released as required.           
Reports:                                                                             
  Specified in the conditions of each award, but typically have annual and final     
  reports as well as other products.                                                 
Audits:                                                                              
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June         
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit                    
  Organizations", nonfederal entities that receive financial assistance of $500,000  
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit           
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 or     
  more in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that         
  year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.                                       
Records:                                                                             
  All records must be maintained for 3 years after submission of the final financial 
  report.                                                                            
Account Identification:                                                              
  14-0804-0-1-306.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Research Work Orders funded with reimbursable funds provided by other             
  Federal programs) FY 07 $15,405,511; FY 08 est $16,000,000; and FY 09 est          
  $16,000,000. (NOTE: No funds appropriated to the program are set aside or are      
  separately identifiable for project grants.)                                       
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  $5,000 to $615,000; $33,660.                                                       
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  In fiscal year 2008, 414 Research Work Orders were active at cooperating           
  universities. The number of Research Work Orders active in FY 2009 is              
  expected to be about 414.                                                          
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  Provided to each of the 40 universities participating in the Cooperative Research  
  Units Program.                                                                     
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Inquiries regarding the Cooperative Research Units program may be addressed        
  to the Cooperative Research Units, 12201 Sunrise Valley Drive, Mail Stop 303,      
  Reston, VA 20192. Point of Contact (POC): Dr. Kevin G. Whalen, Deputy              
  Chief, Telephone: (703)648-4062, FAX: (703)648-4269, E-mail:                       
  kwhalen@usgs.gov.                                                                  
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  https://www.coopunits.org                                                          
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  None.

                                                                                     
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

                                                                                     
  Development and assessment of Adaptive Management methods; lamprey and

                                                                                     
  salmonid migration and survival past dams; grassland birds following Hurricane     
  Katrina; king rail habitat models; risk of fish disease introductions; biomarkers  
  of fish endocrine disruptors; effects of commercial harvest on shovelnose          
  sturgeon; human disturbance effects on warbler behavior; fish and amphibian        
  conservation genetics, invasive species control techniques; use of UAV systems     
  for natural resource management; climate change and water management effects       
  in ridge-slough mosaics; hierarchical soil nutrient mapping for improved           
  ecosystem change detection; endangered/threatened species research; factors        
  effecting spread of CWD; effects of contaminants and toxins on fish; blood         
  fractions as indicators of protein balance in reindeer and caribou; modeling the   
  dynamics of avian influenza in wild birds; assessment of wildlife vulnerability to 
  energy development.                                                                
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Proposals must address natural resource and environmental issues of concern to     
  federal agencies and be acceptable to local program cooperators and universities   
  hosting Cooperative Fish and Wildlife Research Units. The Unit Leader of each      
  Unit must determine this before the Unit and its host university submits a         
  proposal to USGS. Projects must be for research and have educational               
  components for graduate training.                                                  
                                                                                     
                                                                                     


516                                                                            11-08

15.813 COOPERATIVE RESEARCH UNITS TRAINING
PROGRAM
   (CRUTP)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  GEOLOGICAL SURVEY, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Organic Act of 1879, 20 U.S.C. 1060.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide financial support to Minority Serving Institutions (MSIs) to
  introduce a culturally diverse group of students, primarily undergraduates, to the
  fields of freshwater fisheries and aquatic sciences and train them for careers in
  the natural resources professions.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  To provide MSIs with funds to offer training opportunities supporting the
  program objectives in accordance with an approved budget, plus appropriate
  amount for indirect costs. Grantees must agree to administer the grant in
  accordance with the regulations and policies governing the grants program of the
  USGS.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Accredited 4-year Historically Black College or Universities (HBCUs) under
  Title III Part B of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended (20 U.S.C.
  1060 et seq.) with program studies in the freshwater fisheries or aquatic
  sciences.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Undergraduate, graduate, or professional students enrolled or accepted for
  enrollment as regular students; who maintain satisfactory academic progress in
  accordance with the eligibility standards and practices of the grantee institution.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Proposed program application responsive to instructions issued by the U.S.
  Geological Survey.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Discussions regarding funding availability and program interests are strongly
  encouraged as limited funding is available for new projects. This program is
  excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Application form Standard Form (SF) 424 Application for Federal Assistance
  must be used. This program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No.
  A-110, or its successor, and the Department of the Interior regulations at 43 CFR
  Part 401, Subpart C. Applicant must submit proposed projects on
  http://www.Grants.gov as required by the individual program announcement.
Award Procedure:
  A panel of CRU scientists and program managers that may include external
  peers will review the proposals. All proposals will be evaluated and rated in
  accordance with established criteria. Final award determination will be made by
  the CRU project officer. Notification of an award is by signed grant document
  from a USGS contracting officer.
Deadlines:
  Applicants are to submit proposals electronically at http://www.grants.gov .
  Applications will be due approximately 15 days following the release of the
  Program Announcement. Details regarding the release date of the Program
  Announcement may be obtained by contacting the office specified in Section
  152.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  2 to 4 months.
Appeals:
  Not applicable. The application may be revised and resubmitted.
Renewals:
  Not applicable. All projects have a limited duration not to exceed 5 years.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grants are normally awarded in, but not restricted to, 12 month budget periods.
  Project duration may not exceed 5 years.
Reports:
  Recipients shall be required to submit SF-269 Financial Status Report, SF-272
  Federal Cash Transaction Report, and an Interim Report providing annual
  progress of the project and a Final Report which documents and summarizes the
  results of the entire project.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations,
  nonfederal entities that receive financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 or more in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
