Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Costs will be determined in accordance with 43 CFR Part 12 Subpart C,              
  "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements         
  to State and Local Governments." Section 12.62, identifies Federal cost            
  principles for determining allowable costs.                                        
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102,         
  OMB Circular No. A-110, and E.O. 12372.                                            
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Applications for technical assistance grants may be submitted at any time.         
  Directed assistance application procedures, which make up the majority of the      
  Office of Insular Affairs' (OIA) financial assistance, vary depending on the       
  purpose of the funding. For capital improvement funds, call letters are sent out   
  annually requesting spending plans from the 4 U.S. territories while government

  operations awards are made automatically once the funds are appropriated by the    
  U.S. Congress. Direct payments are provided in accordance with laws and

  reports for Virgin Islands Rum Excise Tax advances and Guam Section 30             
  Income Tax Collection advances.                                                    
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  A grant award is made to each territorial government entity in the specific        
  amounts and for the specific purposes set forth in the annual Department of the    
  Interior and Related Agencies Appropriation Act signed by the President.           
Deadlines:                                                                           
  None.                                                                              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  None.                                                                              
Appeals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  There are no formula requirements. The majority of OIA's financial assistance      
  programs do not have a matching requirement. The two exceptions are the            
  American Samoa Operations and Maintenance Set-Aside Program, which has a           
  50% local match requirement, and OIA's Operations and Maintenance                  
  Improvement Program (OMIP). However, OMIP match requirements are left to           
  the discretion of the grant manager and may be waived should the application       
  warrant it.                                                                        
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  The period of performance for OIA grants is dependent on the activity to be        
  funded and is specified in the grant terms and conditions. Payments are            
  generally made through wire transfer arrangements.                                 
Reports:                                                                             
  Reports that are required by 43 CFR Part 12, Subpart C, "Uniform                   
  Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State         
  and Local Governments," must be submitted on a timely basis as specified in the    
  grant terms and conditions. Final reports are due within 90 days of grant          
  completion or termination.                                                         
Audits:                                                                              
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133, (Revised, June 27,        
  2003) "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"          
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in        
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that   
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal         
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted   
  in Circular A-133. Grants are also subject to inspection and audit by Interior's   
  Office of the Inspector General, OIA staff, or any other authorized representative 
  of the Federal government.                                                         
Records:                                                                             
  Record retention requirements are the same as those contained in 43 CFR Part       
  12, Subpart C, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and                 
  Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments."                            
Account Identification:                                                              
  Account Identification: 14-0412-0-1-806; 14-0414-0-1-806.                          
Obligations:                                                                         
  FY 07 $225,892,000; FY 08 est $223,475,000; and FY 09 est $209,621,000.            
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  OIA financial assistance awards range from a few thousand dollars to tens of       
  millions.                                                                          
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  OIA financial assistance has enabled the U.S. territories to develop               
  economically, socially, and politically thereby fostering their self-sufficiency.  
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  None.                                                                              
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  The Budget and Grants Management Division or the Technical Assistance              
  Division, Office of Insular Affairs, Department of the Interior, 1849 C Street,    
  N.W., Washington, DC 20240. Telephone: (202) 208-6971 and Fax: (202) 208-          


520                                                                            11-08

  7585.
Web Site Address:
  http://www/doi.gov/oia.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Operational support to the American Samoa Government and grants for the
  construction of basic infrastructure including roads, water systems, power,
  sewer, schools, and hospitals.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The following consideration will be used in determining projects to be funded:
  (1) Directed appropriations, (2) Availability of funds; and (3) Relevance to
  program priorities.
15.904 HISTORIC PRESERVATION FUND GRANTS-IN-AID
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL PARK SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended, 16 U.S.C. 470 et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide matching grants to States for the identification, evaluation, and
  protection of historic properties by such means as survey, planning technical
  assistance, acquisition, development, and certain Federal tax incentives available
  for historic properties; to provide matching grants to States to expand the
  National Register of Historic Places, (the Nation's listing of districts, sites,
  buildings, structures, and objects significant in American history, architecture,
  archaeology, engineering and culture at the National, State and local levels) to
  assist Federal, State, and Local Government agencies, nonprofit organizations
  and private individuals in carrying out historic preservation activities; and to
  provide grants to Indian Tribes and Alaskan Native Corporations to preserve
  their culture.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants; Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Matching grants can directly finance State staff salaries, equipment, and
  materials, and travel necessary to accomplish program purposes. States may
  transfer funds to third parties to carry out historic preservation activities such as
  surveys, preservation plans, National Register nominations, architectural plans
  and specifications, historic structures reports, and engineering studies necessary
  to restore properties listed on the National Register of Historic Places, and for
  acquisition or repair of these properties. Development projects must comprise
  one or more of the 4 allowable treatments defined in the "Secretary of the
  Interior's Standards for the Treatment of Historic Properties" (36 CFR 78).
  These treatments are preservation, restoration, rehabilitation, and reconstruction.
   Major reconstruction is not eligible. Other activities must meet the applicable
  Secretary of the Interior's Standards for Archeology and Historic Preservation.
  In 2004, the amount appropriated from the Historic Preservation Fund for
  financial assistance to the States, Territories, and the Freely Associated States of
  Micronesia, was $35 million, with an additional $3 million for grants to Indian
  tribes. In accordance with Section 102(a)(5) of the National Historic
  Preservation Act, as amended, grantees must agree to assume, after completion
  of the restoration project, the total cost of the continued maintenance, repair, and
  administration of the property in a manner satisfactory to the Secretary.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible applicants are States and Territories as defined in the National Historic
  Preservation Act, as amended, operating programs administered by a State
  Historic Preservation Officer appointed by the Governor or according to State
  law, and which are otherwise in compliance with the requirements of the Act.
  Eligible applicants for the Tribal Grant Program are Federally recognized Indian
  Tribes, Alaska Native Corporations, and Native Hawaiian organizations.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Eligible beneficiaries include State and local governments, public and private
  nonprofit organizations, and individuals. According to their own priorities and
  plans, States select their own projects and may subgrant to public and private
  parties, including local governments, federally recognized Indian tribal
  governments, nonprofit and for-profit organizations, and/or individuals to
  accomplish program objectives. At least ten percent of each year's appropriation
  must be subgranted to local governments certified as eligible to carry out
  preservation functions according to 36 CFR 61. Grants are awarded at a ratio of
  60 percent Federal, 40 percent State (public and/or private funds and/or
  allowable in-kind donations). American Samoa, Guam, Commonwealth of
  Northern Mariana Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Republic of Palau,
  Republic of Marshall Islands and Virgin Islands are exempt from matching share
  per Public Law 96-205.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Each State must have a qualified Review Board, employ professionally qualified
  staff, and maintain an approved statewide historic preservation plan in
  accordance with 36 CFR 61.
Preapplication Coordination:
