  Historic Landmark properties in the National Register of Historic Places affords     
  a degree of Federal protection under Section 106 of the Historic Preservation Act    
  of 1966, and fulfills one of the prerequisites for Federal assistance under the      
  National Register grants- in-aid program (see 15.904). Certain landmarks are         
  also made eligible for Federal tax benefits and protections and technical            
  preservation assessment and assistance.                                              
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Anyone may suggest that a property be considered for inclusion in an                 
  appropriate National Historic Landmark theme study, provided the property has        
  a high degree of historic integrity and potential national significance with         
  relation to some broad facet of American history. The owner of the property may      
  be an individual, government, or corporate body. Properties of only State or local   
  significance do not qualify.                                                         
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Anyone may suggest that a property be considered for inclusion in an                 
  appropriate National Historic Landmark theme study, provided the property has        
  a high degree of historic integrity and potential national significance with         
  relation to some broad facet of American history. The owner of the property          
  may be an individual, government, or corporate body. Properties of only State        
  or local significance do not qualify.                                                
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Request should be supported by full discussion of national significance of

  property and documented integrity.                                                   
Preapplication Coordination:

  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                       
Application Procedure:

  If the property is not listed in the National Register of Historic Places, write the 
  National Historic Landmarks Survey giving a brief resume of the history of the       
  property and its present condition and advising what assistance can be provided      
  in the nomination process. If the property is already listed in the National         
  Register, provide a brief resume of the historical facts that justify consideration  
  of national significance. Properties nominated to, or already listed in, the         
  National Register of Historic Places at a national level of significance by the      
  State Historic Preservation Officer may be reviewed by the National Historic         
  Landmarks Survey staff.                                                              
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  When the property has been investigated, findings, in the form of a thorough         
  NHL nomination form, are presented to the National Park System Advisory              
  Board which evaluates the property's national significance and high integrity and    
  recommends a final action to the Secretary of the Interior. Owners of proposed       
  landmarks are contacted prior to a landmark study, given an opportunity to           
  comment on a final study, and then notified after designation of the landmark.       
Deadlines:                                                                             
  Varies with dates of twice yearly Advisory Board meetings. National Historic         
  Landmarks Survey staff sets deadlines for nominations before Advisory Board          
  meetings.                                                                            
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Determined by scheduling of theme studies, availability of staff or funds, and       
  proximity to twice yearly Advisory Board meetings.                                   
Appeals:                                                                               
  Owner comments are sought prior to the meeting of the Advisory Board. Board          
  meetings are open to the public. Appeals process is outlined in program              
  regulations.                                                                         
Renewals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                                
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  None.                                                                                
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  None.                                                                                
Reports:                                                                               
  National Park Service personnel make periodic inquiries and inspections to           
  determine continuing eligibility of National Historic Landmark properties and to     
  identify those which exhibit known or anticipated damage or threats to the           
  integrity of their resources.                                                        
Audits:                                                                                
  None.                                                                                
Records:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                
Account Identification:                                                                
  14-1042-0-1-303.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  (Salaries and expenses) FY 07 $787,000; FY 08 est $790,000; and FY 09 est not        
  available.                                                                           
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  None.                                                                                
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  None.                                                                                
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  List of National Historic Landmarks available upon request. Regulations were         
  published in the "Federal Register" on February 2, 1983. Copies of regulations       


522                                                                              11-08

  also available upon request. Upon request, a bulletin on "How to Prepare
  National Historic Landmark Nominations" is available. The documents are also
  available at the NHL website http://www2cr.nps.gov/nhl.
Regional or Local Office:
  See Catalog Appendix IV for addresses.
Headquarters Office:
  National Historic Landmarks Survey, NRHE, National Park Service, Department
  of the Interior, 1849 C St., N.W., Mail Stop 2280, Washington, DC 20240.
  Telephone: (202) 354-2210. Program inquiries should be directed to Paul
  Loether E-mail: Paul_Loether@nps.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.cr.nps.gov/nhl.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  15.904, Historic Preservation Fund Grants-In-Aid; 15.910, National Natural
  Landmarks Program; 15.914, National Register of Historic Places; 15.915,
  Technical Preservation Services.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  National Historic Landmarks are automatically entered in the National Register
  of Historic Places. See Uses and Use Restrictions for funding project capability.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  See program 15.914, National Register of Historic Places.
15.914 NATIONAL REGISTER OF HISTORIC PLACES
   (National Register)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL PARK SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended, Public Law 89-665, 16
  U.S.C. 470, 80 Stat. 915 et seq.; Executive Order 11593, May 13, 1971; Tax
  Reform Act of 1976, Public Law 94-455; Public Law 94-442; 90 Stat. 1519;
  Revenue Act of 1978; Public Law 95-600; National Historic Preservation Act
  Amendments of 1980; Public Law 96-515; Tax Treatment Extension Act of
  1980; Public Law 96- 541; Economic Recovery Tax Act of 1981, Public Law
  97-340; Tax Reform Act of 1984, Public Law 98-369; Tax Reform Act of 1986,
  Public Law 99- 514; National Historic Preservation Act Amendments of 1992,
  Public Law 102-575; Executive Order 13287, March 3, 2003.
OBJECTIVES:
  To expand and maintain the National Register of Historic Places for planning,
  preservation, research, public education and tourism efforts; to make the
  information on districts, sites, buildings, structures and objects of historical,
  architectural, archeological, engineering and cultural significance more
  accessible to the public in order to increase and broaden the public's
  understanding of the information, foster a national preservation ethic, and to
  promote greater appreciation of America's heritage; to coordinate with Federal
  agencies, State and Tribal preservation offices, and the Advisory Council on
  Historic Preservation in the implementation of laws and policies pertaining to
  historic preservation; and to establish liaison with and give guidance to
  communities under Title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of
  1974 (see 14.218).
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Advisory Services and Counseling.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Professional advice is provided in determining whether a property qualifies for
  inclusion in the National Register according to the Criteria for Evaluation
  contained in 36 CFR Part 60. Listing does not affect the range of actions an
  owner may take, as long as Federal funding, licensing or assistance is not
  involved and no governmental unit receives any authority or control over the
  property, including its use and disposition. However, if a Federal project might
  have an effect on a property listed or eligible for listing, the agency involved
  must provide the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation a reasonable
  opportunity to comment pursuant to 36 CFR Part 800. Registered properties
  also become eligible to receive grants from the Historic Preservation grant-in-aid
  program of the Department of the Interior (see 15.904), when funding is
  available, to receive home improvement loans from the Department of Housing
  and Urban Development under Title I of the National Housing Act as amended
  on October 18, 1974, or to participate in the community grant program provided
  by the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974. Major Federal tax
  advantages can be received on certain rehabilitation expenditures for "certified
  historic structures" and for charitable contributions for conservation purposes of
  partial interests in historic properties.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible applicants are the States and territories as defined in the National
  Historic Preservation Act, operating under programs administered by State
  Historic Preservation Officers appointed by the Governors (listed in Appendix
  IV of the Catalog); or the Tribal Preservation Officers; Federal agencies required
  to nominate and consider historic properties within their jurisdiction or as a
  result of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 and Executive Order
  11593, and the National Historic Preservation Act operating under programs
