  administered by representatives (listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog) appointed     
  by the heads of the agencies; and, in States without approved State Historic         
  Preservation Programs, persons and local governments. Applicants eligible for        
  Federal Tax benefits include owners of individually listed properties and            
  properties certified by the Secretary of Interior as being historic and in a district
  certified as historic.                                                               
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Public and private owners of historic properties listed in the National Register of  
  Historic Places or of properties certified by the Secretary of Interior as being     
  historic and in a district certified as historic.                                    
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Nominations are submitted on standard nomination forms provided upon request         
  to the State Historic Preservation Officers, Federal Preservation Officers, and      
  Tribal Preservation Officers who must certify that each property was properly        
  nominated. Procedures for National Register nominations are found in 36 CFR          
  Part 60. Request for determinations of eligibility must be adequately                
  documented as described in Appendix A of 36 CFR Part 63. Requests for                
  certification of historic properties must be documented as described in Section      
  36 CFR Part 67 and requests for certification of State and local statutes and        
  districts must be documented as described in Section 36 CFR Part 67. To              
  participate in the program, each State must have an approved review board, an        
  approved State staff, and an accepted State historic preservation plan.              
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  For National Register nominations the signature of the State Historic                
  Preservation Officer on the nomination form certifies that the State review board    
  has reviewed the nomination and that all applicable procedures, including            
  notification to the property owner at least once during the nomination process,      
  have been followed. The signature of the Federal Preservation Officer for Federal    
  property or the Tribal Preservation Officer on Tribal lands on the nomination        
  form certifies that the property has been nominated in compliance with the           
  National Historic Preservation Act. This program is excluded from coverage           
  under E.O. 12372.                                                                    
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Anyone may prepare a National Register nomination. After the property is             
  approved by the State Historic Preservation Officer, Tribal Preservation Officer,    
  or Federal Preservation Officer, the nomination form or letter of request for a      
  determination of eligibility should be forwarded to the Keeper of the National       
  Register, National Park Service, Department of the Interior, 1849 C Street, NW,      
  Mail Stop 2280, Washington, DC 20240. Nominations submitted for review are           
  announced in the Federal Register to provide a period of comment.                    
  Documentation for certification for Federal tax benefits of historic buildings and   
  structures, State and local statutes and districts should be forwarded to the        
  appropriate State Historic Preservation Office, which sends it to the appropriate    
  National Park Service Office.                                                        
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  The professional review staff of the National Register determines whether the        
  properties meet the National Register criteria as contained in 36 CFR Part 60.       
  Properties that meet the criteria are then officially listed in the National Register
  and become eligible for Federal tax benefits and Historic Preservation Fund          
  grants when they are available.                                                      
Deadlines:                                                                             
  None.                                                                                
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  After nomination by State, 45 days at Federal level.                                 
Appeals:                                                                               
  A nomination returned to the States, Tribes, or Federal agencies may be              
  resubmitted, depending upon the reason for its rejection. Appeals for listing and    
  removal may be made in accord with 36 CFR 60.                                        
Renewals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                                
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  None.                                                                                
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  None.                                                                                
Reports:                                                                               
  None.

Audits:

  None.                                                                                
Records:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                
Account Identification:                                                                
  14-1042-0-1-303.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  (Salaries and expenses) FY 07 $1,700,000; FY 08 est $1,700,000; and FY 09 est        
  not available.                                                                       
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  None.

                                                                                       
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

                                                                                       
  None.

                                                                                       
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

                                                                                       


                                                                                  11-08
  36 CFR Part 60; 36 CFR Part 63; 36 CFR Part 67, The National Register of
  Historic Places, a free leaflet explaining the program, Guidelines for Completing
  National Register of Historic Places Forms, and other technical guidance are
  available from the National Register of Historic Places Reference Desk, National
  Register, History, and Education, 1849 C Street, N.W., (Mail Stop 2280)
  Washington, DC 20240 (www.cr.nps.gov/nr/publications). Lists of nominations
  submitted to the National Register for review are published in the Federal
  Register. The National Register database of all listings is accessible through the
  Internet at http://www.cr.nps.gov/nr.
Regional or Local Office:
  See Appendix IV for list of State Historic Preservation Officers and National
  Park Service Regional Offices.
Headquarters Office:
  Keeper of the National Register of Historic Places, National Register of Historic
  Places, National Register, History, and Education, National Park Service,
  Department of the Interior, 1849 C Street, N.W., Mail Stop 2280, Washington,
  DC 20240. Telephone: (202) 345-2213. Program inquiries should be directed to
  Paul Loether at Paul_Loether@nps.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.cr.nps.gov/nr.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  14.218, Community Development Block Grants/Entitlement Grants; 14.219,
  Community Development Block Grants/Small Cities Program; 15.904, Historic
  Preservation Fund Grants-In-Aid; 15.910, National Natural Landmarks Program;
  15.915, Technical Preservation Services; 15.912, National Historic Landmark.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Criteria for Evaluation: The following criteria are designed to guide the States
  and the Secretary of the Interior in evaluating potential entries (other than areas
  of the National Park System and National Historic Landmarks) to the National
  Register: The quality of significance in American history, architecture,
  archeology, engineering, and culture is present in districts, sites, building,
  structures, and objects that possess integrity of location, design, setting,
  materials, workmanship, feeling, and association, and; (A) that are associated
  with events that have made a significant contribution to the broad patterns of our
  history; or (B) that are associated with the lives of persons significant in our
  past; or (C) that embody the distinctive characteristics of a type, period, or
  method of construction, or that represent the work of a master, or that possess
  high artistic values, or that represent a significant and distinguishable entity
  whose components may lack individual distinction; or (D) that have yielded, or
  may be likely to yield, information important in prehistory or history. Ordinarily
  cemeteries, birthplaces, or graves of historical figures, properties owned by
  religious institutions or used for religious purposes, structures that have been
  moved from their original locations, reconstructed historic buildings, properties
  primarily commemorative in nature, and properties that have achieved
  significance within the past 50 years shall not be considered eligible for the
  National Register. However, such properties will qualify if they are integral parts
  of districts that do meet the criteria or if they fall within the following categories.
  (A) a religious property deriving primary significance from architectural or
  artistic distinction or historical importance; or (B) a building or structure
  removed from its original location but which is significant primarily for
  architectural value, or which is the surviving structure most importantly
  associated with a historic person or event; or (C) a birthplace or grave of a
  historical figure of outstanding importance if there is no other appropriate site or
  building directly associated with his productive life; or (D) a cemetery which
  derives its primary significance from graves of persons of transcendent
  importance, from age, from distinctive design features, or from association with
  historic events; or (E) a reconstructed building when accurately executed in a
  suitable environment and presented in a dignified manner as part of a restoration
  master plan, and when no other building or structure with the same association
  has survived; or (F) a property primarily commemorative in intent if design, age,
  tradition, or symbolic value has invested it with its own historical significance,
  or (G) a property achieving significance within the past 50 years if it is of
  exceptional importance.
15.915 TECHNICAL PRESERVATION SERVICES
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL PARK SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Executive Order 11593, May 13, 1971; Federal Property and Administrative
  Services Act of 1949, as amended, Public Law 81-152, 40 U.S.C. 471; National
  Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended, Public Law 89-665, 80 Stat.
  915, 16 U.S.C. 470 et seq.; Tax Treatment Extension Act of 1980, Public Law
  96-541, Public Law 95-600; General Authorities Act of 1976; Mining in
  National Parks Act of 1976; Tax Reform Act of 1986, Public Law 99-514.
OBJECTIVES:
  To establish technical preservation policies and standards and to develop
  technical information for the treatment of historic properties. This includes
                                                                                       523
