  development and distribution of the "Secretary of the Interior's Standards for       
  Historic Preservation Projects," which provide guidance regarding all aspects of     
  preservation work for the use of Federal, State and local officials, property        
  owners, developers, and architects. To review rehabilitations of investment          
  property for the 20% investment tax credit. To advise Congress and Federal           
  agencies on the preservation of historic properties. This includes developing and    
  disseminating policies and the regional inspection procedures for the monitoring     
  of national historic landmarks, and preparing the annual report to Congress on       
  endangered national historic landmarks. To provide policy direction and              
  guidance on Federal surplus properties which are available for transfer for          
  historic monument purposes.                                                          
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Advisory Services and Counseling; Dissemination of Technical Information;            
  Provision of Specialized Services.                                                   
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Technical information is provided to assist Federal agencies, State and local        
  governments, and owners of certified historic structures to preserve and maintain    
  historic properties under their jurisdiction or control. For matching grants, see    
  15.904, Historic Preservation Grants-in-Aid.                                         
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Federal agencies, State and local governments, and individuals. For Grants-in-       
  Aid program, see 15.904, Historic Preservation Grants-in-Aid.                        
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Federal agencies, State and local governments, and individuals. For Grants-in-       
  Aid see program 15.904, Historic Preservation Grants-in-Aid.                         
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  None.                                                                                
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  Contact by letter or telephone communication to the State Historic Preservation      
  Officer or the Headquarters Office for technical information or for information      
  on the Historic Preservation Tax Incentives Program; through NPS regional            
  office for surplus property; for Grants-in-Aid see 15.904, Historic Preservation     
  Grants-in-Aid. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.              
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  By Historic Preservation Certification Application (OMB No. 1024-0009)               
  through the appropriate State official or NPS regional office. For Grants-in-Aid,    
  see 15.904, Historic Preservation Grants-in-Aid.

Award Procedure:                                                                       
  The Annual appropriation is allocated by the Secretary of the Interior among

  States and Territories.

                                                                                       
Deadlines:                                                                             
  None. Applications are taken at any time during the year. Applicants are

  strongly urged to apply before rehabilitation work begins on a historic building.    
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Decisions normally are made within 30 days of receipt of review fee, but the         
  time can vary according to the nature of problems encountered and range of           
  alternatives.                                                                        
Appeals:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                
Renewals:                                                                              
  None. Grants to States are for 2 years, subject to "Use or Lose" procedures          
  established by the Federal agency.                                                   
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  None. Tax credit is determined by the amount of qualified rehabilitation             
  expenditures.                                                                        
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Fiscal year in which funds are appropriated and one succeeding fiscal year.          
Reports:                                                                               
  Completed rehabilitation work must be documented in photographs submitted            
  with the Request for Certification Work (NPS Form 10-168c).                          
Audits:                                                                                
  The Secretary of the Interior reserves the right to inspect the property at any time 
  up to 5 years after the completion of the rehabilitation and to withdraw             
  certification of rehabilitation work not undertaken as described or of additional    
  unapproved project work undertaken inconsistent with the Secretary of the            
  Interior's Standards for Rehabilitation.                                             
Records:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                
Account Identification:                                                                
  14-1042-0-1-303.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  (Salaries and expenses) FY 07 $1,600,000; FY 08 est $1,600,000; and FY 09 est        
  not available.                                                                       
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  None.                                                                                
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  The Heritage Preservation Services Program prepares publications on historic

                                                                                       
  structure preservation and rehabilitation for wide distribution to Federal, State,

                                                                                       
  and local agencies, including a series of Preservation Briefs. Each Preservation

                                                                                       
  Brief provides useful information about a technical problem encountered

                                                                                       


524                                                                              11-08

  frequently at all levels of preservation. The division is also responsible for the
  review and evaluation of rehabilitation proposals and certification of work for
  certified historic structures under the Tax Reform Act of 1986 and other
  applicable legislation. As of September 30, 2003, an estimated 31,000
  rehabilitations of historic buildings have been approved, representing an
  investment in America's historic resources of $31.4 billion. The division,
  through the regional offices, is responsible for the review of rehabilitation and
  reuse proposals submitted with State and local government applications for the
  transfer of federally-owned surplus historic properties. The division provides
  general technical assistance to private organizations, individuals, and local
  governments; evaluates the inspection reports prepared by the field area offices
  and compiles them for reports to Congress on the status of endangered and
  threatened national historic landmarks. The Heritage Preservation Services
  Program is responsible for monitoring acquisition and development awards
  made under the Historic Preservation Fund grant program (15.904), as available.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  36 CFR Part 67 (for tax incentives program). Treasury Regulations Section 1.48-
  12. For a free catalog listing publications of the Cultural Resources programs of
  the National Park Service, write Headquarters Office listed below or see website
  at http://www2.CR.NPS.GOV.
Regional or Local Office:
  See Catalog Appendix IV for addresses.
Headquarters Office:
  Chief, Heritage Preservation Services Program, National Park Service,
  Department of the Interior, 1849 C Street, N.W., ORG 2255, Washington, DC
  20240. Telephone: (202) 513-7270. Program inquiries should be directed to
  Andrew Ferrell E-mail: Andrew_Ferrell@nps.gov.
Web Site Address:
  HTTP://WWW.CR.NPS.GOV.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  15.904, Historic Preservation Fund Grants-In-Aid; 15.910, National Natural
  Landmarks Program; 15.914, National Register of Historic Places.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  None.
15.916 OUTDOOR RECREATION-ACQUISITION,
DEVELOPMENT AND PLANNING
   (Land and Water Conservation Fund Grants)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL PARK SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  16 U.S.C. 1-4 et seq.; Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965, Public
  Law 88-578, 78 Stat. 897, as amended; Public Law 90-401, 82 Stat. 354; Public
  Law 91-485, 84 Stat. 1084; Public Law 91-308, 84 Stat. 410; Public Law 92-
  347, 86 Stat. 460; Public Law 93-81, 87 Stat. 178; Public Law 94-422, 90 Stat.
  1313; Public Law 95-42, 91 Stat. 210; Public Law 100-203, 101 Stat. 1330.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide financial assistance to the States and their political subdivisions for
  the preparation of Statewide Comprehensive Outdoor Recreation Plans
  (SCORPs) and acquisition and development of outdoor recreation areas and
  facilities for the general public, to meet current and future needs.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Acquisition and development grants may be used for a wide range of outdoor
  recreation projects, such as picnic areas, inner city parks, campgrounds, tennis
  courts, boat launching ramps, bike trails, outdoor swimming pools, and support
  facilities such as roads, water supply, etc. Facilities must be open to the general
  public and not limited to special groups. Development of basic rather than
  elaborate facilities is favored. Fund monies are not available for the operation
  and maintenance of facilities. Grants are also available to States only for
  revising and updating existing SCORPs preparation of new plans and for
  statewide surveys, technical studies, data collection and analysis and other
  planning purposes which are clearly related to SCORP refinement and
  improvement. Every site acquired or developed with assistance under this
  program must remain available and accessible for public outdoor recreation use
  in perpetuity.
Applicant Eligibility:
  For planning grants, only the State agency formally designated by the Governor
  or State law as responsible for the preparation and maintenance of the Statewide
  Comprehensive Outdoor Recreation Plan is eligible to apply. (Treated as States
  in this regard are the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands,
  American Samoa, the Northern Mariana Islands, and Guam.) For acquisition
  and development grants, the above designated agency may apply for assistance
  for itself, or on behalf of other State agencies or political subdivisions, such as
  cities, counties, and park districts. Additionally, Indian tribes which are
