  organized to govern themselves and perform the function of a general purpose        
  unit of government qualify for assistance under the program. Individuals and        
  private organizations are not eligible.                                             
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  The general public. For planning grants, same as Applicant Eligibility.             
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  The State Liaison Officer (SLO), appointed by the Governor to administer the        
  program in the State, must furnish assurance that the project is in accord with     
  the State Comprehensive Outdoor Recreation Plan; i.e., that it meets high           
  priority recreation needs shown in the action program portion of the plan. The      
  State's apportionment balance of fund monies must be adequate for the project,      
  and the sponsoring agency must permanently dedicate the project to public           
  outdoor recreation and assume responsibility for operation and maintenance.         
  SCORPs must cite the State's legal authority to participate in the Land and         
  Water Conservation Fund program. Costs will be determined in accordance with        
  43 CFR Part 12, Subpart C, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants          
  and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments." Section 12.62           
  (of the common rule), identifies Federal cost principles for determining            
  allowable costs.                                                                    
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  The standard application forms furnished by the Federal agency and required by      
  43 CFR Part 12, Subpart C, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants          
  and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments," must be used for        
  this program. Applicant is required to furnish basic environmental information      
  or evaluation. Assessment by the National Park Service will determine whether       
  an environmental impact statement will be prepared. This program is eligible for    
  coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs."          
  An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the single point   
  of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the State        
  requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected the   
  program for review. This program is covered under OMB Circular No. A-102.           
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Project proposals are submitted to the National Park Service through the State      
  liaison officer designated by the Governor. The State Liaison Officer has the       
  initial prerogative of determining acquisition and development project              
  eligibility, priority need, and order of fund assistance within the State. This     
  program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-110.                     
                                                                                      
Award Procedure:

  Proposals are reviewed by the NPS field office, where final action may be taken.    
Deadlines:                                                                            
  None.                                                                               
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

  Approximately 20 days for acquisition and development projects; 60 days for         
  planning projects.                                                                  
Appeals:

  State may appeal to the Secretary of the Interior.                                  
Renewals:                                                                             
  Project agreements may be amended to change the scope, amount, or duration.         
  Must be approved by the National Park Service.

Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  The Land and Water Conservation Fund Act specifies that not more than 50            
  percent of the project cost may be federally financed. Under certain conditions,    
  all or part of the project Sponsor's matching share may be from certain other       
  Federal assistance programs, such as Title I Community Development,                 
  Appalachia and all other Regional Commissions. Forty percent of the first $225      
  million; thirty percent of the next $275 million; and twenty percent of all         
  additional appropriations is apportioned equally among the States. The              
  remaining appropriation is apportioned on the basis of need. This program has       
  maintenance of effort (MOE) requirements, see funding agency for further            
  details.                                                                            
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Funds are available for obligation during the fiscal year in which appropriated     
  and for the two following fiscal years. The assistance period for individual        
  projects varies and may be extended. Complex projects may be broken down            
  into stages, with one being initially approved and the remainder qualified for      
  activation at a later date. Except for project preparation costs, all costs must be 
  incurred within the project period. Planning projects may not be phased.            
Reports:                                                                              
  State inspection reports are submitted every 5 years on completed projects          
  stating whether the properties acquired and/or developed with fund assistance       
  are used in accordance with the agreement. For planning projects, end products      
  are specified in the application for assistance. Reports are required with billings.
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June          
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"      
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in         
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that    
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal          
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted    
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                              


                                                                                 11-08
Records:
  Maintain records to facilitate audit, including records that fully disclose the
  amount and disposition of assistance; the total cost of the project; and the
  amount and nature of that portion of the cost supplied by other sources.
Account Identification:
  14-5035-0-2-303.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $27,994,976; FY 08 $23,133,400; and FY 09 est $6,314,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $150 to $5,450,000; $68,178.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Since the programs inception in 1964, over $3.5 billion had been made available
  to State and local units of government to assist in planning, acquiring and
  developing public outdoor recreation areas and facilities.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Brochure available from the Department of the Interior, National Park Service,
  MS-2225, 1849 C Street, Washington, DC 20240, free. Regulation: 36 CFR Part
  59, FR 51 No. 186, September 25, 1986 (amended June 15, 1987).
Regional or Local Office:
  See Catalog Appendix IV for addresses.
Headquarters Office:
  Chief, Recreation Programs, National Park Service, (2225), Department of the
  Interior, 1849 C Street, NW., Washington, DC 20240. Telephone: (202) 354-
  6900. FAX: (202) 371-5179, e-mail: waso_recgrants@nps.gov. Program
  inquiries should be directed to Michael D. Wilson at
  Michael_D_Wilson@nps.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.nps.gov/lwcf.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  15.919, Urban Park and Recreation Recovery Program; 15.918, Disposal of
  Federal Surplus Real Property for Parks, Recreation, and Historic Monuments.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Acquisition and development grants may be used for a wide range of outdoor
  recreation projects, such as picnic areas, inner city parks, campgrounds, tennis
  courts, boat launching ramps, bike trails, outdoor swimming pools, and support
  facilities such as roads, water supply, etc.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  At the Federal level each project must be in accord with a State Comprehensive
  Outdoor Recreation Plan. Beyond this, the selection of projects is made by the
  State Liaison Officer of each State who is responsible for the administration of
  the 15.916 program in his State.
15.918 DISPOSAL OF FEDERAL SURPLUS REAL
PROPERTY FOR PARKS, RECREATION, AND HISTORIC
MONUMENTS
  (Surplus Property Program; Federal Lands to Parks Program;
  Historic Surplus Property Program)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL PARK SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  40 U.S.C. 550(b), (e), and (h), Public Law 107-217, originally under the Federal
  Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, Section 203(k), 63 Stat. 385
  as amended, 40 U.S.C. 484, Public Law 91-485; Federal Lands for Parks and
  Recreation, 16 U.S.C. 4601-5.
OBJECTIVES:
  To transfer surplus Federal real property for public park and recreation use, or
  for use of historic real property.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Use of Property, Facilities, and Equipment.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Surplus real property may be conveyed for public park and recreation use at
  discounts up to 100 percent of fair market value and for historic purposes
  without monetary consideration. Property conveyed for park and recreation use
  or historic purposes must be used for these purposes in perpetuity or be reverted
  to Federal ownership.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Only State or local units of government are eligible to apply for surplus real
  property for public park and recreation and historic purposes, and must agree to
  manage the property in the public interest and for public use (in the case of park
  and recreation purposes). Only properties listed in or eligible for listing the
  National Register of Historic Places may be transferred through the Historic
  Surplus Property Program.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Only State or local units of government are eligible to apply for surplus real
  property for public park and recreation and historic purposes, and must agree to
  manage the property in the public interest and for public use (in the case of park
  and recreation purposes). Property conveyed for historic purposes may under
  certain circumstances be used for revenue-producing activities to support the
                                                                                   525
