  historic property, and such activities may be eligible for Federal Historic         
  Preservation Tax Incentives.                                                        
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  The applicant must submit an application, proposed program of use for the           
  property and evidence of its ability to finance the program. Additionally,          
  applicants under the Historic Surplus Property Program must submit an               
  architectural plan. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular       
  No. A-87.                                                                           
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  Park and recreation and historic applications are coordinated by the National       
  Park Service, Department of the Interior, and the General Services                  
  Administration, or in the case of legislated military base closures, the            
  Department of Defense and its military components. This program is excluded         
  from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102 and E.O. 12372.                          
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Applications for park and recreation use and historic uses are submitted to the     
  appropriate National Park Service Regional Office. Application forms are issued     
  by the National Park Service. This program is excluded from coverage under          
  OMB Circular Nos. A-102 and A-110.                                                  
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Upon approval of a park and recreation application, the National Park Service       
  will request GSA or DOD military service, in the case of base closures, to assign   
  the property to the Secretary of the Interior for transfer. Upon assignment by      
  DOD or GSA, the National Park Service will transfer the property to the             
  applicant, in the case of park and recreation transfers. Historic transfers are     
  made by GSA or DOD.                                                                 
Deadlines:                                                                            
  The National Park Service (or an eligible applicant for a historic monument         
  transfer) must notify the General Services Administration within 20 calendar

  days after the date of the notice of determination of surplus if it has an eligible

                                                                                      
  applicant interested in acquiring the property, or otherwise comply with the

  DOD Base Realignment and Closure planning and disposal schedules. For a             
  park and recreation transfer, the National Park Service must request assignment     
  of property from GSA within 25 calendar days after the expiration of the 20 day

  period, or otherwise comply with DOD Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC)            
  planning and disposal schedules. For a historic monument transfer, GSA or the       
  DOD military service, in the case of base closures, deeds the property directly to  
  the approved applicant.                                                             
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  From 3 to 6 months.                                                                 
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  None.                                                                               
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  None.                                                                               
Reports:                                                                              
  Recipients of surplus properties are required to submit biennial compliance         
  reports on the use of the property.                                                 
Audits:                                                                               
  The National Park Service conducts periodic on-site compliance inspections to       
  assure that the properties are being utilized for the purposes for which they are   
  conveyed. Properties in noncompliance may be reverted back to the Federal           
  Government.                                                                         
Records:                                                                              
  The National Park Service maintains official records concerning the property.       
Account Identification:                                                               
  14-1042-0-1-303.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  Federal Lands to Parks: FY 07 $556,000; FY 08 $565,000; and FY 09 est               
  $575,000. Historic Monuments: FY 07 $145,000; FY 08 $150,000; and FY 09             
  est $150,000.                                                                       
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  None.                                                                               
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  Since 1949, over 1,400 properties comprising over 156,000 acres have been           
  transferred to State and local governments for park and recreation purposes, and    
  approximately 130 properties for historic purposes. In fiscal year 2004, 25         
  properties (3,494 acres) were transferred for park and recreation purposes          
  through the Federal Lands to Parks Program.                                         
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  "The Federal Lands to Parks Program," 1997 brochure (no charge), "Historic          
  Surplus Property Program," 1998 brochure published by the National Park             
  Service (no charge), "Disposal of Surplus Real Property," booklet published by      
  the General Service Administration (no charge). 40 U.S.C. 550(b), (e), and (h),     
  Public Law 107-217.                                                                 
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Applicants for historic purposes are requested to contact the following National    


526                                                                             11-08

  Park Service Offices: the Alaska Support Office; Intermountain Region-Santa
  Fe Office; Midwest Region; Northeast Region-Philadelphia Office; Pacific West
  Region-Seattle Office; or the Southeast Region. (See Catalog Appendix IV for
  addresses.) Applicants for parks and recreation purposes should contact the
  National Park Service Offices: Northeast Region, Boston, MA office; Southeast
  Region, Atlanta, GA; Western Region, Oakland, CA.
Headquarters Office:
  National Park Service, Heritage Preservation Services, Historic Surplus Property
  Program, 1849 C Street, N.W., (Org. Code 2255), Washington, DC 20240.
  Contact: Gary Sachau, Telephone (202) 354-2044. National Park Service,
  Recreation Programs Division, Federal Lands to Parks Program, 1849 C Street
  N.W., Org. Code 2225, Program Contacts: Michael D. Wilson and Wendy
  Ormant, Telephone: (202) 354-6915.
Web Site Address:
  Historic Surplus Property Program: http://www.cr.nps.gov/hps/tps/hspp_p.htm.
  Federal Lands to Parks Program: http://www.nps.gov/flp.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  15.916, Outdoor Recreation_Acquisition, Development and Planning; 39.002,
  Disposal of Federal Surplus Real Property; 93.291, Surplus Property Utilization;
  15.915, Technical Preservation Services.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Hiking, Bicycling and/or Equestrian Trails; Nature Study Areas - Wildlife
  Conservation Areas; Developed Play Areas; State and Regional Parks;
  Arts/Crafts Centers; Youth and Senior Citizen Areas; Historic Buildings and/or
  Archeological Areas.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Suitability of real property for the proposed use and the ability of the applicant
  unit of government to carry out the proposed program of use.
15.921 RIVERS, TRAILS AND CONSERVATION
ASSISTANCE
   (Rivers and Trails or RTCA)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL PARK SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Wild and Scenic Rivers Act of 1968, 16 U.S.C. 1271-1287 as amended, Public
  Law 90-542; National Trails System Act, 16 U.S.C. 1241 as amended, Public
  Law 90-543; Outdoor Recreation Act of 1963, 16 U.S.C. 4601-3, Public Law
  88-29; Federal Power Act, 16 U.S.C. 797-828c.
OBJECTIVES:
  The Rivers, Trails and Conservation Assistance Program implements the natural
  resource conservation and outdoor recreation mission of the National Park
  Service in communities across America. RTCA will help create local, regional
  and state networks of parks, rivers, trails, greenways and open spaces by
  collaborating with community partners and National Park areas in every state.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Advisory Services and Counseling.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  None.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Private nonprofit organizations and Federal, State and local government
  agencies.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Private nonprofit organizations and Federal, State and local government
  agencies.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Program advice and information is available from the appropriate NPS Regional
  Office or the National Office. Consultation with an RTCA staff before an
  application for assistance is made helps clarify RTCA roles and contributions
  and also helps identify how the selection criteria might apply to your
  conservation and outdoor recreation goals. This program is excluded from
  coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102 and E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Information is available electronically at http://www.nps.gov/rtca or you may
  contact the appropriate regional RTCA program leader. This program is
  excluded from coverage under OMB Circular Nos. A-102 and A-110.
Award Procedure:
  Decisions are based upon adherence to program criteria and the level of
  available staff time.
Deadlines:
  Proposals should be submitted by August 1 for the following fiscal year.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Generally about 4 months.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
