  Assistance is for one year and may be renewed for a second year if warranted.        
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  No fixed amount. Applications must demonstrate commitment by interested              
  public agencies and non-profit organizations.                                        
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

  Generally 1 to 2 years.

Reports:

                                                                                       
  None.                                                                                
Audits:                                                                                
  None.

Records:

                                                                                       
  None.

                                                                                       
Account Identification:

                                                                                       
  14-1042-0-1-303.

                                                                                       
Obligations:

                                                                                       
  FY 07 $7,697,000; FY 08 est $7,600,000; and FY 09 est not available.

Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  None. Staff assistance only.                                                         
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  NPS Rivers and Trails has played a major role in community conservation and          
  recreation through citizen-led, partnership approaches to river protection, trail    
  development and land conservation.                                                   
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  Project reports are available from NPS offices and the Web.                          
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  Applicants are requested to communicate with National Park Service Regional          
  Offices. Refer to Catalog Appendix IV or the web site, http://www.nps.gov/rtca,      
  for addresses.                                                                       
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Chief, Rivers, Trails and Conservation Assistance, National Park Service, 1849       
  C Street, N.W., (ORG CODE 2235), Washington, DC 20240. Telephone: (202)              
  354-6900. Program inquiries should be directed to Charlie Stockman at E-mail:        
  Charlie_Stockman@nps.gov.                                                            
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.nps.gov/rtca.                                                             
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  15.916, Outdoor Recreation_Acquisition, Development and Planning; 15.918,            
  Disposal of Federal Surplus Real Property for Parks, Recreation, and Historic        
  Monuments; 15.919, Urban Park and Recreation Recovery Program.                       
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  Develop new trails and greenways; conserve and restore river resources, access       
  and views; convert abandoned railways to multi-purpose trails; promote and           
  develop systems of trails and greenways; preserve open space; and establish new      
  conservation organizations and alliances. Examples of Rivers and Trails projects     
  include: (1) The Lakes-To-Locks Water Trail in Puget Sound includes over 100         
  miles of shoreline and 100 launch and landing sites. The Rivers & Trails             
  Program worked with the Washington Water Trails Association to build a broad-        
  based constituency, to provide assistance in trail development, marketing, and       
  map publication, and to help empower our partners to see their project goals         
  come to life. (2) In New York, a 15-mile multi-use trail is being planned to         
  connect four state parks and the communities of Ithaca and Trumansburg. Rivers       
  & Trails has facilitated community involvement in the planning for the Black         
  Diamond Trail, one success of which was to organize a Community Volunteer            
  Work Day bringing together a local hospital, college students, youth groups and      
  neighbors. (3) Along the Los Angeles River, Rivers & Trails worked with Los          
  Angeles County to complete a master plan which has spun off multiple open            
  space projects. For example, the opening of the one-mile Los Feliz section was       
  celebrated by volunteers, neighborhood residents, and representatives of             
  government associated with the project. The Los Angeles River offers an              
  example of an effort enjoying lasting success. (4) Rivers & Trails Philadelphia      
  based staff developed one of our first partnerships with the health care             
  community in a project known as Wyoming Valley Wellness Trails in Luzerne            
  county, Pennsylvania. The project focused on the development of a sustainable        
  partnership to implement a trail system in a region with a strong community          
  health initiative and provided opportunities for public participation through        
  workshops and information meetings.                                                  
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  (1) Initial project partners are identified and a lead project partner is designated.
  Note: The lead partner may be a federal agency, state or local agency, tribe, non-   
  profit organization, or citizens' group. Federal agencies, including the National    
  Park Service, maybe the lead partner only in collaboration with a nonfederal         
  partner. (2) Project has specific, partner- defined goals and anticipated            
  measurable results that are: clearly stated; support the National Park Service       
  mission and RTCA mission and strategic plan goals; protect important natural         
  resources or enhance outdoor recreation opportunities; and will have results that    
  occur within an appropriate timeframe. (3) There is a commitment by lead             
  project partners to significant public involvement and outreach in the project. (4)  
  Roles and contributions of initial project partners, including RTCA, are             
  identified. There is a commitment by initial project partners to cooperate and to    
  provide or obtain the resources necessary to implement the project. (5) There is     
                                                                                       
                                                                                  11-08
  evidence of broad support for the project. Preference is given to a project that
  also: (a) provides physical connections among resources; (b) includes an NPS
  area as an actively involved project partner; (c) includes both natural resource
  conservation and outdoor recreation; (d) partners with a health organization.
15.922 NATIVE AMERICAN GRAVES PROTECTION AND
REPATRIATION ACT
   (NAGPRA)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL PARK SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act of 1990 (NAGPRA);
  Section 10, Public Law 101-601, 25 U.S.C. 3008.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide grants to museums to assist in the consultation on and
  documentation of Native American human remains and cultural items; to
  provide grants to Indian tribes, Alaska Native villages and corporations, and
  Native Hawaiian organizations to assist in identifying human remains and
  cultural items, including sacred objects, with which they are culturally affiliated;
  and to provide grants to museums, Indian tribes, Alaska Native villages and
  corporations, and Native Hawaiian organizations to assist in the repatriation of
  human remains and cultural items which they are culturally affiliated.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Project grants may support the following: Consultation/Documentation grants
  for museums may be used to: (a) bring lineal descendants, traditional religious
  leaders, and authorized representatives of Indian tribes, Alaska Native villages
  and corporations, and Native Hawaiian organizations to inspect collections and
  consult regarding the identification, cultural affiliation, proper care, treatment,
  and repatriation of Native American cultural items; (b) bring traditional religious
  leaders, and authorized representatives of Indian tribes, Alaska Native villages
  and corporations, and Native Hawaiian organizations to inspect collections and
  consult regarding culturally unidentifiable Native American human remains; (c)
  provide NAGPRA training for staff members; (d) fund travel by staff members
  to consult with lineal descendants, traditional religious leaders, and Indian tribe,
  Alaska Native village and corporation, and Native Hawaiian organization
  officials regarding the proper care, treatment, and disposition of Native
  American cultural items; and (e) update documentation of unassociated funerary
  objects, sacred objects, and objects of cultural patrimony in consultation with
  lineal descendants, traditional religious leaders, and authorized representatives
  of Indian tribes, Alaska Native villages and corporations, and Native Hawaiian
  organizations. Consultation/Documentation grants for Indian tribes, Alaska
  Native villages and corporations, and Native Hawaiian organizations may be
  used to: (a) assess and evaluate summaries, inventories, and other
  documentation provided by museums and Federal agencies; (b) provide
  NAGPRA training for staff members; (c) communicate with museum and
  Federal agency officials regarding culturally affiliated human remains and
  cultural items; (d) travel to inspect collections and consult with museum and
  Federal agency officials regarding the identification, cultural affiliation, proper
  care, treatment, and repatriation of Native American human remains and other
  cultural items; (e) travel to consult with museum and Federal agency officials
  regarding culturally unidentifiable Native American human remains; (f)
  document the cultural affiliation of Native American human remains and other
  cultural items currently in the control of museums and Federal agencies.
  Repatriation grants for museums, Indian tribes, Alaska Native villages and
  corporations, and Native Hawaiian organizations may be used for: (a) travel by
  authorized representatives of Indian tribes, Alaska Native villages and
  corporations, Native Hawaiian organizations, or museums to accept and/or
  accompany human remains or other cultural items that are being repatriated; (b)
  transportation of Native American human remains or other cultural items that
  are being repatriated; and (c) construction of appropriate containers for the
  transport and disposition of repatriated Native American human remains and
  other cultural items. Grant funds may not be used for: activities related to the
  documentation or repatriation of human remains and cultural items from the
  Smithsonian Institution; activities related to the inadvertent discovery and/or
  intentional excavation of Native American human remains and other cultural
  items on Federal or tribal lands pursuant to NAGPRA Section 3 and 43 CFR 10
  Subpart B; museum or tribal litigation costs, including expert testimony; care
  and curation of repatriated Native American human remains and cultural items;
  construction or renovation of facilities; or purchase of land or buildings; costs
  associated with the transport of cultural items for which control is not transferred
  to a lineal descendant, Indian tribe, or Native Hawaiian organization; overhead
  or indirect cost rates above 25 percent; projects proposed by applicants who
  have previously received a NAGPRA grant, but whose grant expired without
  successfully completing major elements of the proposed work, or without
  meeting
  theconditionsofthe grant award.
                                                                                     527
