Applicant Eligibility:                                                                  
  Eligible applicants for museum documentation awards include any institution or        
  State or local government agency (including any institution of higher learning)       
  that has possession of, or control over, of Native American human remains or          
  other cultural items and which has completed the following NAGPRA                     
  obligations: provided a written summary of their Native American collections to       
  the National Park Service and appropriate lineal descendants, Indian tribes, and      
  Native Hawaiian organizations; and submitted an inventory of Native American          
  human remains and associated funerary objects in their collections to the             
  National Park Service and culturally affiliated Indian tribes and Native Hawaiian     
  organizations. Eligible applicants for tribal documentation and repatriation          
  awards are Indian tribes, Alaska Native villages or corporations, and Native          
  Hawaiian organizations that meet the criteria outlined in the Native American         
  Graves Protection and Repatriation Act. An Indian tribe is defined in NAGPRA          
  as any tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community of Indians,         
  which is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by     
  the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians. Alaska Native        
  villages and corporations include those groups or communities defined in, or          
  established pursuant to, the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act. Native              
  Hawaiian organizations include any organization that: serves and represents the       
  interests of Native Hawaiians; has as a primary and stated purpose the provision      
  of services to Native Hawaiians; and has expertise in Native Hawaiian Affairs.        
  NAGPRA states that such Native Hawaiian organizations shall include the               
  Office of Hawaiian Affairs and Hui Malama I Na Kapuna `O Hawai`i Nei.                 
  Applications for repatriation awards will be considered only after publication of     
  the required Notice of Inventory Completion or Notice of Intent to Repatriate in      
  the Federal Register. Funding is not available for activities that occur prior to the 
  submissions of the application.                                                       
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                
  Eligible beneficiaries for museum documentation awards include any institution        
                                                                                        
  or State or local government agency (including any institution of higher

                                                                                        
  learning) that has possession of, or control over, of Native American human

                                                                                        
  remains or other cultural items and which has completed the following

                                                                                        
  NAGPRA obligations: provided a written summary of their Native American

                                                                                        
  collections to the National Park Service and appropriate lineal descendants,

                                                                                        
  Indian tribes, and Native Hawaiian organizations; and submitted an inventory of

                                                                                        
  Native American human remains and associated funerary objects in their

                                                                                        
  collections to the National Park Service and culturally affiliated Indian tribes      
  and Native Hawaiian organizations. Eligible beneficiaries for tribal                  
  documentation and repatriation awards are Indian tribes, Alaska Native villages       
  or corporations, or Native Hawaiian organizations that meet the criteria outlined     
  in the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act. An Indian tribe        
  is defined in the statute as any tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or     
  community of Indians, which is recognized as eligible for the special programs        
  and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as      
  Indians. Alaska Native villages and corporations include those groups or              
  communities defined in, or established pursuant to, the Alaska Native Claims          
  Settlement Act. Native Hawaiian organizations include any organization that:          
  serves and represents the interests of Native Hawaiians; has as a primary and         
  stated purpose the provision of services to Native Hawaiians; and has expertise       
  in Native Hawaiian Affairs. NAGPRA states that such Native Hawaiian                   
  organizations shall include the Office of Hawaiian Affairs and Hui Malama I Na        
  Kapuna `O Hawai`i Nei. Applications for repatriation awards will be considered        
  only after publication of the required Notice of Inventory Completion or Notice       
  of Intent to Repatriate in the Federal Register. Funding is not available for         
  activities that occur prior to the submissions of the application.                    
Credentials/Documentation:                                                              
  Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-87 "Cost Principles for              
  State and Local Governments" applies for Indian tribes and State institutions.        
  OMB Circular A-122 applies for non-profit institutions. OMB Circular A-21             
  applies for universities.                                                             
Preapplication Coordination:                                                            
  This program is excluded from coverage under Executive Order 12372. An                
  Environmental Impact Statement/Assessment is not required for this program.           
Application Procedure:                                                                  
  Museums, federally recognized Indian tribes, and Native Hawaiian organizations        
  may apply for annual grants in the form of planned activities and projects.           
  Provisions of 43 CFR Part 12 apply. Applicants may contact the National Park          
  Service National NAGPRA program by telephone at (202) 354-2203, by E-mail:            
  NAGPRA_Grants@nps.gov, or on the Web at                                               
  http://www.cr.nps.gov/nagpra/grants OR http://grants.gov.                             
Award Procedure:                                                                        
  An annual appropriation is allocated by the Secretary of the Interior.                
Deadlines:                                                                              
  Set dependent upon the date of enactment of appropriations for the fiscal year        
  for which assistance is requested, but generally set approximately February or        
  March each year. For application deadlines, contact the National Park Service         
  National NAGPRA program by telephone at (202) 354-2203, by e-mail at                  
  NAGPRA_Grants@nps.gov, or on the Web at                                               
  http://www.cr.nps.gov/nagpra/grants.



528                                                                               11-08

Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  None.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  There is no statutory apportionment formula; grants are awarded competitively.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grants are awarded for up to 18 months. Payments are made upon request for
  costs incurred.
Reports:
  An Interim Progress Report and a Final Progress Report are required from each
  grantee. A Federal Cash Transaction Report (SF-272) must be submitted to
  report expenditure of any Advance Payments made to a grantee.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Full fiscal and project records to be maintained by grantees in accordance with
  OMB Circular Nos. A-87 and A-102 (for Indian tribes and State and local
  governments) or OMB Circular Nos. A-110 (for nonprofit institutions) and A-
  122 or OMB Circular Nos. A-21 and A-110 (for all other grantees).
Account Identification:
  14-1042-0-1-303.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $2,400,000; FY 08 $2,400,000; and FY 09 est $2,350,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $5,000 to $75,000 for museum and tribal consultation/documentation grants;
  any amount up to $15,000 for repatriation grants. Average amount for a
  documentation grant: $63,380. Average amount for a repatriation grant:
  $10,931.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  As of fiscal year 2006, 523 grants totaling over $27 million has been awarded to
  museums, Indian tribes, Alaska Native villages and corporations, and Native
  Hawaiian organizations for projects that include the creation of museum/tribe
  partnerships through staff exchanges; workshops and training opportunities; the
  coordination of inter-tribal and intra-museum discussions; hiring tribal
  repatriation coordinators to prepare and review NAGPRA-related
  documentation, and returning human remains and cultural items to Indian tribes,
  Alaska Native villages and corporations, and Native Hawaiian organizations.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Guidelines and proposal materials are available upon request from the National
  Park Service, National NAGPRA Program, 1849 C Street, N.W. (2253),
  Washington, DC 20240. Requests may also be directed to the National
  NAGPRA Program at (202) 354-2203, or via E-mail:
  NAGPRA_Grants@nps.gov.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  National NAGPRA, National Park Service, 1849 C Street, N.W. (2253),
  Washington, DC 20240-0001. Telephone (202) 354-2203; Fax: (202) 371-
  5197; E-mail: NAGPRA_Grants@nps.gov. Program inquiries should be
  directed to Sherry Hutt E-mail: Sherry_Hutt@nps.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.cr.nps.gov/nagpra/grants.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Projects include but are not limited to: NAGPRA Consultation/Documentation
  Projects: a type of grant which provides tribes with the funds necessary to set-
  up a NAGPRA office and begin organizing information received from museums,
  researching cultural affiliation and communicating with museums; Consultation
  with Tribes: a type of grant which provides museums with the funds necessary
  to finance tribal visits which facilitate consultation and allow dialogue about
  collections; NAGPRA Compliance Workshops: a type of grant which provides
  funding for regional workshops and training sessions allowing the broad
  dissemination of information on the implementation of NAGPRA as well as
  information tailored to suit a particular locale.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Grant proposals will be evaluated according to four criteria: Criterion A - Are
  the objectives of the project consistent with the goals of Native American Graves
  Protection and Repatriation Act? (Projects that are inconsistent with NAGPRA's
  goals will not be considered for funding). Are the project objectives clearly
  described? Special consideration will be given to collaborative proposals,
