  especially proposals that focus on sharing and disseminating information among       
  multiple museums and/or Indian tribes, or that outline a plan to work with           
  specific Indian tribes and/or museums. Criterion B - Is the project designed to      
  accomplish the project objectives efficiently? Are the activities clearly            
  described in detail, with an explicitly stated link between the activities and the   
  stated objectives? Are activities organized logically? Are project methods and       
  techniques described clearly? Are the roles and responsibilities of all participants 
  defined clearly and described? Applicants with previously funded NAGPRA              
  grants will have to include a description of the progress achieved and describe      
  how the new project fits with the previously funded one. Criterion C - Is the        
  budget reasonable to accomplish project tasks and activities? Are budget items       
  necessary to accomplish project activities? Is the budget justification sufficient   
  to explain project costs in detail? Criterion D - Are project personnel qualified    
  to accomplish project objectives? Are project personnel are qualified for the        
  activities and tasks assigned? Are unfilled positions and consultancies clearly      
  described? Are search criteria defined for all unfilled positions and                
  consultancies?                                                                       
                                                                                       
                                                                                       
15.923 NATIONAL CENTER FOR PRESERVATION                                                
TECHNOLOGY AND TRAINING                                                                
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  NATIONAL PARK SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR                                    
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  National Historic Preservation Act Amendments of 1992, Public Law 102-575,           
  Section 4022, 16 U.S.C. 470x.                                                        
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To develop and distribute preservation and conservation skills and technologies      
  for the identification, evaluation, conservation, and interpretation of prehistoric  
  and historic resources; to develop and facilitate training for Federal, State and    
  local resource preservation professionals, cultural resource managers,               
  maintenance personnel, and others working in the preservation field; to apply        
  preservation technology benefits from ongoing research by other agencies and         
  institutions; to facilitate the transfer of preservation technology among Federal    
  agencies, State and local governments, universities, international organizations,    
  the private sector; and to cooperate with related international organizations for    
  the beneift of curltural resource conservation in the United States and              
  worldwide.                                                                           
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                             
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Support work in archeology, historic architecture, historic landscapes, objects      
  and materials conservation, ethnography, and interpretation through cooperative      
  agreements and the reservation Technology and Training Grants program. The           
  following types of grants are supported: Applied Research and Technology             
  Transfer in all areas of preservation and conservation; Applied Environmental        
  and Materials Research related to understanding and preventing damage to             
  cultural resources caused by air pollution and other contaminants; Information       
  Management to develop, promote, and disseminate information about                    
  preservation technologies; Training and Education to share recent research           
  findings and to promote technology transfer from other disciplines to the field of   
  preservation; Publications to develop books, manuscripts, and articles that focus    
  on collating, synthesizing, reviewing, or interpreting existing preservation         
  knowledge. Ineligible projects include those whose principal focus is the            
  treatment of a specific site, structure, object or collection; proposals exclusively 
  for undergraduate internships or graduate fellowships; projects that are             
  underway prior to the grant award date; projects that duplicate proposals            
  previously submitted; or proposals for conferences for which equivalent results      
  can be obtained at regular meetings of professional societies. Detailed use and      
  use restrictions are specified in the applicable Request for Proposals.              
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Eligible applicants include: U.S. universities and two and four year colleges;       
  U.S. private nonprofit institution/organization and quasi-public nonprofit           
  institution/organization that are directly associated with educational or research   
  activity; Federal, State, local government agencies, Federally recognized Indian     
  Tribal governments and their Tribal Historic Preservation Offices; Profit            
  organization. Non U.S. institutions, organizations or government agencies, or        
  unaffiliated non-U.S. citizens may submit proposals only in partnership with an      
  eligible U.S. academic institution, U.S. non-profit organization or U.S.             
  government agency.                                                                   
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Individuals involved through their organizations in interdisciplinary efforts to     
  advance the art, craft, and science of historic and prehistoric preservation in the  
  fields of archeology, historic architecture, historic landscapes, objects and        
  materials conservation, and interpretation.                                          
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Grants and cooperative agreements are awarded to eligible public and private         
  sector practitioners who demonstrate institutional capability and commitment to      
  the Center's mission to preserve historic and prehistoric resources; and who         
                                                                                       
  evidence the capacity to perform the proposed work successfully. Proof of

                                                                                  11-08
  nonprofit status is required of nonprofit organizations and institutions.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The program is covered by E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal
  Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the
  single point of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the
  State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected
  the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  A Call for Proposals is published annually that includes guidelines for preparing
  proposals within each project type. The information is available upon request
  via mail, e-mail (pttgrants@ncptt.nps.gov), or our website
  http://www.ncptt.nps.gov. Only materials described under proposal requirements
  for each project type within the annual Call for Proposals will be considered.
  Standard application forms, as furnished by the National Park Service must be
  completed.
Award Procedure:
  Applications are evaluated by NCPTT staff, peer reviewers, and a designated
  National Park Service grants administrator according to selection criteria for
  each Project Type stated in the Guidelines for Preparing PTT Grants Proposals.
  Reviews determine the feasibility of the proposed project, and consistency with
  National Park Service financial and policy requirements concerning the project's
  scope and purpose. Final award is by the Director of the National Park Service.
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 90 to 180 days.
Appeals:
  Not applicable. Applicants may reapply if a revised application is submitted in
  the subsequent competition.
Renewals:
  Renewal may be requested through a new, competing application. Extensions of
  time may be requested subject to acceptable work progress and reasons for the
  delay.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Award amounts are subject to availability of funds. In accordance with Title IV,
  Public Law 102-575, Section 405(b): (1) Grants shall be allocated in such
  fashion to reflect the diversity of the historic preservation fields and shall be
  geographically distributed. (2) No recipient may receive more than 10 percent
  of the awards allocated within any year. (3) Total administrative costs, direct
  and indirect, charged for carrying out these grants may not exceed 25 percent of
  aggregate costs. Matching share is not required by law, but may be a selection
  criterion as stated in the Guidelines.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Except for Project Type 4, Environmental Effects of Outdoor Pollutants on
  Cultural Resources - Research and Treatment Development, the period of
  support is one year. NCPTT's Guidelines specify requirements for Project Type 4
  multi-year applications. The Treasury Check method of payment is used for
  advances or reimbursement. A SF 270, Request for Advance or Reimbursement,
  must be submitted for each payment requested. Requests for reimbursement or
  advanced funds may be requested monthly in amounts greater than $500.
  Expenses charged to the grant or cooperative agreement may not be incurred
  prior to the beginning date specified in the agreement or subsequent or the grant
  end date, and incurred only to carry out the approved objectives, scope of work,
  and budget.
Reports:
  An interim progress report and a final report are required. If an advance
  payment is requested, an SF 272, Federal Cash Transactions Report, must be
  submitted demonstrating that advanced funds have been promptly expended.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  For programs under OMB Circular No. A-133, financial records, supporting
  documents, statistical records, and all other records pertinent to an award shall
  be retained for 3 years from the date of submission of the final expenditure
  report. If any audit is started before the 3-year period, the records shall be
  retained until all issues have been resolved and final action taken. For programs
  under the purview of 43 CFR Part 12, Subpart C, "Uniform Administrative
  Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local
  Governments," records must be retained at least 3 years; and must be retained
  beyond 3 years if audit findings are not resolved.
Account Identification:
  14-1042-0-1-303.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $345,667; FY 08 $165,415; and FY 09 est $250,000.
                                                                                   529
