Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                              
  $7,856 to $50,000; $36,000.                                                           
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                
  None.                                                                                 
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                
  Guidelines for Preparing PTT Grants Proposals are available from NCPTT for            
  each Project Type. The "Common Rule" adopting relevant OMB Circulars                  
  governing grants and cooperative agreements implemented by the Department of          
  the Interior is published at 43 CFR Part 12.                                          
Regional or Local Office:                                                               
  Direct inquiries to PTTGrants, NCPTT, 645 College Avenue, Natchitoches, LA            
  71457. Telephone: (318) 356-7444; Fax: (318) 356-9119; E-mail:                        
  ncptt@ncpti.nps.gov. Mary Striegel, Environmental and Materials Research              
  Program Director.                                                                     
Headquarters Office:                                                                    
  Bob Ruff, Grants Administrator, Heritage Preservation Services Program,               
  National Center for Cultural Resource Stewardship and Partnership, National           
  Park Service, 1849 C St., N.W., MS 2255, Washington, DC 20240. Telephone:             
  (202) 354-2088. Program inquiries should be directed to Andrew Ferrell E-mail:        
  Andrew_Ferrell@nps.gov.                                                               
Web Site Address:                                                                       
  http://family.info.gov\cfda\index.htm.                                                
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                       
  15.904, Historic Preservation Fund Grants-In-Aid; 15.914, National Register of        
  Historic Places; 15.915, Technical Preservation Services.                             
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                            
  The Powered Parachute as an Archaeological Aerial Reconnaissance Vehicle;             
  Development and Testing of Organic Coatings for the Protection of Outdoor             
  Bronze Sculpture from Air-Pollutant Enhanced Corrosion; Olmsted Online                
  Research Guide; Interpreting Ground Penetrating Radar Data, a User's                  
  Workshop; and publications.                                                           
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                       
  Principal criteria for selecting proposals are: (1) Project activity, results, and    
  audience are clearly described. (2) The project contributes substantially to a        
  better understanding or distribution of knowledge in historic preservation. (3)       
  The project is innovative. (4) The project is cost- effective. (5) The project        
  work will reach an appropriate and adequate audience. Selected projects also          
  share these characteristics: The project is based on creative ideas in preservation   
  or conservation; is significant for the national preservation and conservation        
  community; is clear, concise, and complete, with clearly defined goals,               
  objectives, and results that increase access to and dissemination of information;     
  and is proposed by capable principal investigators and organization.                  
                                                                                        
15.926 AMERICAN BATTLEFIELD PROTECTION                                                  
                                                                                        
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                         
  NATIONAL PARK SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR                                     
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                          
  Omnibus Parks and Public Lands Management Act of 1996; American                       
  Battlefield Protection Act of 1996, Section 604, Public Law 104-333, 110 Stat.        
  4173, 16 U.S.C. 469k.                                                                 
OBJECTIVES:                                                                             
  Promote the protection and preservation of battlefield lands on American soil by      
  funding non- acquisition preservation methods such as planning, education,            
  survey and inventory.                                                                 
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                    
  Project Grants.                                                                       
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                              
  Funds may be used for projects resulting in the protection and preservation of        
  battlefield lands and their associated sites on American soil. No funding is          
  given to projects dealing with acquisition of properties or land in fee or interest,  
  payment of rent on properties or land, fund raising, lobbying, battle                 
  reenactments, new construction or reconstruction of historic resources,               
  permanent staff positions, object or material culture curation or other on-going      
  activities, academic scholarships, capital construction or improvement projects       
  (site excavation, trail or road construction, parking lots, visitor centers, scene    
  restoration, etc.). Applications for projects associated with NPS-owned sites         
  must focus on resources outside the NPS boundaries.                                   
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                  
  Applicant may be Federal, intrastate, interstate, State and local agencies, public    
  or private nonprofit institutions/organizations, Federally recognized Indian tribal   
  governments, U.S. territory and possessions, Native American organizations,           
  State colleges and universities, public and private colleges and universities.        
  Multi-organizational applications are encouraged.                                     
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                
  Federal, intrastate, interstate, State and local agencies, public and private         
  nonprofit institutions/organizations, Federally recognized Indian tribal              
  governments, U.S. territories and possessions, Native American organizations,         
  State college or universities, public and private colleges and universities.          
Credentials/Documentation:                                                              


530                                                                               11-08

  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the Single Point of Contact in his or her State for more
  information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for
  assistance, if the State's program has been selected for review.
Application Procedure:
  Applicants should contact the American Battlefield Protection Program in early
  September to obtain an application for funding. Applicants will receive a
  Standard Form 424- Request for Federal Assistance, and a Certificate Regarding
  Debarment, Suspension and Other Responsibility Matters, Drug-Free Workplace
  Requirements and Lobbying, DI-2010. Forms must be completed and returned
  to the American Battlefield Protection Program by the date listed in the
  Application Guidelines.
Award Procedure:
  Award amounts are based on the review panel's recommendations. Reviewers
  include American Battlefield Protection Program staff and regional supporting
  staff, NPS historians and NPS archeologists. Each application is scored
  individually based on a standardized series of questions.
Deadlines:
  Contact the American Battlefield Protection Program for application deadlines at
  (202) 354-2037.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Applications are reviewed and approved or disapproved by the National Park
  Service by the end of the Federal fiscal year.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Provision of additional funding will require that the applicant submit a follow-
  up proposal for the additional funding. The period of performance for a grant
  may be extended without provision of additional funds through mutual
  agreement of the beneficiary and the National Park Service.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Awardees must comply with Department of the Interior regulations and
  requirements governing grants stipulated in 43 CFR 12. There are no matching
  fund requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Project duration should generally be for one year or less. Project funds may be
  requested as advances and/or reimbursements, with the final payment being a
  reimbursement. The project must be complete before final payment may be
  requested. All awarded funds must be expended by the grant end date specified
  in the grant agreement.
Reports:
  Quarterly progress/accounting reports, sent directly to the American Battlefield
  Protection Program, are required for all projects. A final project report is
  required of all projects.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Records for grants awarded to State and Local Governments must be maintained
  in accordance with the provisions of 43 CFR 12, Subpart C, "Uniform
  Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State
  and Local Governments." Records for grants awarded to institutions of higher
  education and other nonprofit organizations must be maintained in accordance
  with the provisions of 43 CFR 12, Subpart F, "Uniform Administrative
  Requirements for Grants and Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education,
  Hospitals, and Other Nonprofit Organizations."
Account Identification:
  14-1042-0-1-303.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $492,184; FY 08 $1,367,144; and FY 09 est $3,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $1,000 to $75,000; $25,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  None.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Regulated by 43 CFR Part 12 (all sections).
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  American Battlefield Protection Program, National Park Service, 1849 C Street,
  N.W., MS 2255, Washington, DC 20240. Telephone: (202) 354-2037 or (202)
  354-2023, Fax: (202) 371-1616. Program inquiries should be directed to
