  Hampton Tucker E-mail: Hampton_Tucker@nps.gov.                                     
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.cr.nps.gov/hps/abpp/.                                                   
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  None.                                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  (1) $21,000 in technical assistance helped in creating a county-wide Vision and    
  Protection Plan for a county and its local battlefield. (2) $20,000 in assistance  
  has been awarded for the development of a state-wide heritage trail. (3) $18,050   
  used to complete and submit a National Register Nomination for a Virginia          
  battlefield. (4) $20,000 in funding has gone towards an archeological survey of    
  a Missouri battlefield. (5) $25,000 was given to a local battlefield commission    
  to pay for the services of a part-time staff person to implement the local         
  battlefield protection plan.                                                       
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Applications received are scored on the following criteria: Site significance;     
  Level of Threat; Preservation Opportunity; Well-Planned Objectives, Tasks, and     
  Schedules; Qualifications and Coordination of Partner Organization(s); Realistic   
  Budget and Matching Resources.                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
15.927 HYDROPOWER RECREATION ASSISTANCE

                                                                                     
   (Rivers and Trails, Hydropower Licensing)                                         
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  NATIONAL PARK SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR                                  
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Federal Power Act, 16 U.S.C. 797-828c; Wild and Scenic Rivers Act of 1968,         
  16 U.S.C. 1271-1287 as amended, Public Law 90-542; Outdoor Recreation Act          
  of 1963, 16 U.S.C. 4601-3, Public Law 88- 29.                                      
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To serve as a national technical resource to support government, industry, and     
  nonprofit partnerships in ongoing consultations and negotiations about             
  applications for hydropower licensing; to meet present and future outdoor          
  recreation and river conservation needs; to maintain and enhance a project's       
  riparian areas.                                                                    
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Advisory Services and Counseling.                                                  
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Staff assistance is available to stakeholders in FERC hydropower licensing

  proceedings to assist with recreation issues and river conservation. Assistance is

  applicable to hydropower projects both within and outside units of the National

                                                                                     
  Park System.                                                                       
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Private nonprofit organizations, Federal, State, and Local government agencies     
  and hydropower licensing applicants.                                               
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Private nonprofit organizations, Federal, State, and Local government agencies     
  and hydropower licensing applicants, as well as the general public.                
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  None.                                                                              
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  Program advice and information is available from the appropriate NPS Regional      
  Office. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                   
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Contact the program leader for Rivers, Trails and Conservation Assistance in the   
  appropriate NPS Regional Office.                                                   
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Decisions are based upon adherence to program criteria and the availability of     
  staff.                                                                             
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Follows requirements of Federal Energy Regulatory Commission; rolling.             
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Project specific.

                                                                                     
Appeals:

                                                                                     
  None.

                                                                                     
Renewals:

  None.                                                                              
                                                                                     
Formula and Matching Requirements:

  None.                                                                              
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Length of licensing process.                                                       
Reports:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Audits:                                                                              
  None.                                                                              
Records:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Account Identification:                                                              
  14-1042-0-1-303.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         


                                                                                11-08
  FY 07 $818,000; FY 08 $839,000; and FY 09 est $850,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  None. Staff assistance only.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  National Park Service Rivers and Trails hydropower program has played a major
  role in licensing efforts through partnership approaches to river protection and
  outdoor recreation for responsible hydropower development.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Information is available on the Web. Assistance complies with Federal Energy
  Regulatory Commission requirements for licensing nonfederal hydropower
  projects; 18 CFR Parts 4, 5, and 16. Policy and Guidelines for Recreational
  Technical Assistance in Hydropower Licenses, 57 FR 61915, December 29,
  1992.
Regional or Local Office:
  Applicants are requested to communicate with National Park Service Regional
  Offices. See Appendix IV in the Catalog or www.nps.gov/rtca.
Headquarters Office:
  Rivers and Hydro Leader, Rivers, Trails and Conservation Assistance, National
  Park Service, 1849 C Street, N.W., (Org Code 2220), Washington, DC 20240.
  Telephone: (202) 354-6900. Program inquiries should be directed to Joan Harn
  at E-mail: Joan_Harn@nps.gov.
Web Site Address:
  www.nps.gov/hydro.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  15.921, Rivers, Trails and Conservation Assistance; 15.916, Outdoor
  Recreation_Acquisition, Development and Planning.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Lower Chippewa River Settlement Agreement, WI--Technical assistance in
  establishing recreational flows, recreational facility planning, protection of
  riparian land and open space, and settlement agreement negotiations between
  Northern States Power Co. (D.B.A. Xcel Energy), City of Eau Claire, WI,
  Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources, Fish and Wildlife Service, Army
  Corps of Engineers, Wisconsin Conservation Congress, Lake Holcombe
  Improvement Association, Inc., Lake Wissota Improvement Association, Lower
  Chippewa Restoration Coalition, Inc., Chippewa Rod and Gun Club, River
  Alliance of Wisconsin, and the National Park Service.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Project should have clear opportunity to enhance recreation and lead to tangible
  conservation of significant natural and cultural resources.
15.928 CIVIL WAR BATTLEFIELD LAND ACQUISITION
GRANTS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL PARK SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Department of the Interior Appropriations Act, Title I, National Park Service,
  Land and Water Conservation Fund, Public Law 107-63; American Battlefield
  Protection Act of 1996, Section 604, Public Law 104-333, 110 Stat. 4173, 16
  U.S.C. 469k.
OBJECTIVES:
  Help States and local communities acquire and preserve threatened Civil War
  battlefields.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grants are available for the fee simple acquisition of land, or for the acquisition
  of permanent, protective interests in land, at Civil War Battlefields listed in the
  Civil War Sites Advisory Commission's (CWSAC) 1993 Report on the Nation's
  Civil War Battlefields. Funds may not be used to acquire land or interests in land
  within the legislative boundary of a National Park. Grantees must provide for
  the appropriate public access to and enjoyment of any lands or interests in lands
  acquired with assistance from this program, subject to necessary and reasonable
  measures on the part of the beneficiary to protect the historic features of the
  battlefield from damage or loss. Grantees may not charge costs for administering
  the project to the grant or to the required matching share.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible applicants are State and local governments. Private nonprofit
  organizations seeking to acquire battlefield land with assistance from this
  program must apply in partnership with the State or local government agency
  that has jurisdiction over the proposed acquisition parcel. The government
  agency may then subgrant the Federal funds to the nonprofit organization. In any
  case where a local government or a private non-profit organization acquires land
  or an interest in land with assistance from this program, it must convey an
  acceptable perpetual protective easement on the land to the State Historic
  Preservation Office or other governmental agency acceptable to the National
  Park Service.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  State and local governments benefit.
Credentials/Documentation:
                                                                                    531
