  Prior to the expenditure of grant funds for the purchase of real property, a           
  current appraisal must be obtained. Appraisal preparation, documentation and           
  reporting must be made in conformance with the standards and practices of the          
  Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land Acquisitions (UASFLA), as                 
  codified in 49 CFR 24.103, and the Uniform Standards of Professional                   
  Appraisal Practices (USPAP Standards 1 and 2) published by the Interagency             
  Land Acquisition Conference.                                                           
Preapplication Coordination:                                                             
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental             
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official        
  designated as the Single Point of Contact in his or her State for more                 
  information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for           
  assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.                          
Application Procedure:                                                                   
  Proposal packages must be submitted in hard copy. Faxed proposals and                  
  proposals submitted electronically will not be accepted. Incomplete proposals          
  will not be considered. Proposals must contain all of the following: 1) a USGS         
  quadrangle map showing the boundaries of the Civil War battlefield and                 
  identifying within those boundaries the specific lands to be acquired; 2) a

  statement defining the threat to the battlefield and the proposed acquisition          
  parcel; 3) a statement from the property owner(s) indicating a willingness to sell

  or to negotiate for the sale of the property; and 4) a list of sources of the required 
  nonfederal matching share and verification of the availability of the matching         
  funds. Applicants will receive a Standard Form 424-Request for Federal                 
  Assistance, and a Certificate Regarding Debarment, Suspension and Other                
  Responsibility Matters, Drug-Free Workplace Requirements and Lobbying, DI-             
  2010. Forms must be completed and returned to the National Park Service.               
Award Procedure:                                                                         
  The Director of the National Park Service makes awards to approved applicants.         
Deadlines:                                                                               
  Applicants may submit their proposals to National Park Service at any time.            
  Applications for Priority I and II battlefields will be reviewed as they are           
  received. Applications for Priority III and IV battlefields will be reviewed every     
  four months beginning on June 1, 2008, and thereafter on October 1, 2008,              
  February 1, 2009, June 1, 2009, and October 1, 2009, or until funds are no             
  longer available. For example, a Priority III application received on February 2,      
  2008 will not be reviewed until June 1, 2008.                                          
                                                                                         
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

  The National Park Service will notify the applicant of its decision within 30 days     
  of receipt of proposals concerning Priority I and II battlefields, and within 45       
  days of the review date of proposals concerning Priority III and IV battlefields.      
Appeals:                                                                                 
  None. Unsuccessful applicants may resubmit a more complete proposal for                
  consideration in a later round of awards until funds are no longer available.          
Renewals:                                                                                
  None.                                                                                  
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                       
  A dollar-for-dollar nonfederal match is required for all projects receiving            
  funding through this program.                                                          
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                   
  Battlefield land or interests in land are purchased immediately after receipt of       
  funds, usually no later than one year after receipt of funds.                          
Reports:                                                                                 
  Progress reports must be submitted twice a year to the National Park Service.          
Audits:                                                                                  
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of                
  States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations," nonfederal entities           
  that receive financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have      
  a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities      
  that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal        
  audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.               
Records:                                                                                 
  Land acquired with these funds must be preserved in perpetuity. To that end,           
  grantees must encumber the title to the acquired battlefield property with a           
  preservation easement running with the land, in favor of and enforceable in court      
  by the State Historic Preservation Office, or by another government agency             
  acceptable to National Park Service, in perpetuity.                                    
Account Identification:                                                                  
  14-5035-0-2-303.                                                                       
Obligations:                                                                             
  FY 07 $4,000,000; FY 08 est $3,000,000; and FY 09 est $3,000,000.                      
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                               
  $47,000 to $540,000; $287,000.                                                         
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                 
  In FY 02, this program obligated more than $1.4 million to protect 590 acres of        
  land at five Civil War battlefields in Maryland, Virginia, and West Virginia.          
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                 
  Interim guidelines are available online at www2.cr.nps.gov/abpp/.                      
Regional or Local Office:                                                                
  None.                                                                                  


532                                                                                11-08

Headquarters Office:
  American Battlefield Protection Program, National Park Service, 1849 C Street,
  N.W., 2255, Washington, DC 20240-0001. Telephone: (202) 354-2023. Fax:
  (202) 371-1794.
Web Site Address:
  http://www2.cr.nps.gov/abpp/; interim guidelines at
  www2.cr.nps.gov/abpp/lwcf2002.htm
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  15.926, American Battlefield Protection.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Awards are made only for the purchase of land or interests in land (easements) at
  Civil War battlefields listed in the Civil War Sites Advisory Commission's
  Report on the Nation's Civil War Battlefields and outside the legislative
  boundaries of National Parks.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Proposals will be evaluated based on significance of the battlefield, existing
  threats to the land, willingness of current property owners to sell, and availability
  of required nonfederal matching funds.
15.929 SAVE AMERICA'S TREASURES
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL PARK SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Omnibus Parks and Public Lands Management Act of 1996; National Historic
  Preservation Act of 1966, as amended, Section 108; Public Law 108-108, 110
  Stat. 4174; 16 USC 470.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide matching grants for preservation and/or conservation work on
  nationally significant intellectual and cultural artifacts and nationally significant
  historic structures and sites. Intellectual and cultural artifacts include artifacts,
  collections, documents, sculpture and works of art.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds may be used for projects resulting in the protection and preservation of
  nationally significant historic structures and sites, as well as nationally
  significant collections of intellectual and cultural artifacts, documents, sculpture
  and works of art. Projects to repair structures must comprise one or more of the
  4 allowable treatments defined in the "Secretary of the Interior's Standards for
  the Treatment of Historic Properties" (36 CFR 78). These treatments are
  preservation, rehabilitation, restoration, and reconstruction. No funding is given
  to projects dealing with acquisition of properties or, collections, payment of rent
  on properties or land, fund raising, and lobbying. The Grantee must grant a
  preservation easement or preservation agreement for each grant-assisted property
  to the State Historic Preservation Officer (SHPO) for at least 50 years from the
  end date of the grant agreement.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Federal (if part of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriation), Intrastate,
  Interstate, State and Local agencies, Public or Private nonprofit
  institutions/organizations, State Colleges and Universities, Public and Private
  Colleges and Universities, and Federally Recognized Indian Tribes. Individuals
  are not eligible applicants. Properties receiving Save America's Treasures (SAT)
  grant assistance must be listed in the National Register of Historic Places for
  National significance.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Any Federal, Intrastate, Interstate, State and local agencies, Public or Private
  nonprofit institution/organization, State Colleges or University, Public and
  Private College or University, or Federally recognized Indian tribes.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applicants should contact the Save America's Treasures Program in January to
  obtain an application for funding. Applicants will receive a Save America's
  Treasures Program application and instructions. Forms must be completed and
  returned to the Save America's Treasures Program by the date listed in the
  Application Guidelines. The Application Guidelines can be found at
  www2.cr.nps.gov/treasures. The Program is included in Grants.gov FIND and
  APPLY. If you don't have internet access, the request for an application may be
  sent to: Grants Manager, Save America's Treasures, National Park Service, 1849
  C Street, NW, Mail Stop 2255, Washington, DC 20240.
Award Procedure:
  Award amounts are based on the review panel recommendations. Each
  application is scored individually based on standardized criteria.
Deadlines:
  Contact the Save America's Treasures Program for application deadlines at (202)
  513-7270, Ext. 6.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
