  Applications are reviewed and approved or disapproved by the Save America's      
  Treasures Program by the end of the Federal fiscal year.

Appeals:                                                                           
  None.

Renewals:                                                                          
  None.                                                                            
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                 
  This program has no statutory formula. Grants must be fully matched on a         
  dollar-for-dollar basis.                                                         
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                             
  Project duration is generally for two years. Funds for the project may be        
  requested as advances and/or reimbursements via SMARTLINK electronic             
  payment system, with the final payment being a reimbursement. All conditions     
  of the project must be complete at the time of requesting the final payment. All 
  awarded funds must be expended within 90 days of the grant end date specified    
  in the Grant agreement.                                                          
                                                                                   
Reports:

  Quarterly performance and financial reports (SF-270 and SF-272), sent directly   
  to the Save America's Treasures Program, are required for all projects. Final    
  performance and financial status reports are required within 90 days of the grant
  end date. The final payment request will not be approved until an acceptable     
  final report has been submitted.                                                 
Audits:                                                                            
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised June        
  27, 2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"    
  nonfederal entities that receive financial assistance of $500,000 or more in     
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that 
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal       
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted 
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                           
                                                                                   
Records:

                                                                                   
  Records for grants awarded to State and Local Governments must be maintained

                                                                                   
  in accordance with the provisions of 43 CFR 12, Subpart C, "Uniform

                                                                                   
  Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State

                                                                                   
  and Local Governments." Records for grants awarded to institutions of higher

                                                                                   
  education and other nonprofit organizations must be maintained in accordance

                                                                                   
  with the provisions of 43 CFR 12, Subpart F, "Uniform Administrative

                                                                                   
  Requirements for Grants and Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education,

                                                                                   
  Hospitals, and Other Nonprofit Organizations."

                                                                                   
Account Identification:

                                                                                   
  14-1042-0-1-303.

                                                                                   
Obligations:

  FY 07 $8,074,000; FY 08 $24,610,000; and FY 09 est $15,000,000.                  
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                         
  $50,000 to $500,000; $200,000.                                                   
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                           
  None.                                                                            
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                           
  Regulated by 43 CFR Part 12.                                                     
Regional or Local Office:                                                          
  None.                                                                            
Headquarters Office:                                                               
  Save America's Treasures Program, National Park Service, 1849 C Street, NW.,     
  Washington, DC 20240. Telephone: (202) 513-7270, Ext. 6; Fax: (202) 371-         
  1794. Program inquiries should be directed to e-mail:                            
  Hampton_Tucker@nps.gov.                                                          
Web Site Address:                                                                  
  www2.cr.nps.gov/treasures                                                        
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                  
  15.904, Historic Preservation Fund Grants-In- Aid; 15.914, National Register of  
  Historic Places.                                                                 
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                       
  Star-Spangled Banner Flag House, Baltimore, Maryland - This National Historic    
  Landmark was the home of the seamstress who sewed the flag that inspired         
  Francis Scott Key to write the National Anthem. Funds used to address invasive   
  moisture problems. Historic Drawings and Documents Collection, Yellowstone       
  National Park, Yellowstone, NPS, Wyoming - The 15,000 drawings in this           
  collection document work in the nation's first national park from the 19th       
  century to the present. This grant will support conservation of the collection.  
  Pollock-Krasner House and Study Center, East Hampton - This National             
  Historic Landmark was the home and studio of 20th-century American painters      
  Jackson Pollock and Lee Krasner. It contains their personal effects, artist      
  materials and the studio floor on which Pollock created his masterpieces of      
  direct painting.                                                                 
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                  
  Applications received are scored on the following criteria: critical preservation
  need; well-planned objectives, tasks, and schedules; qualifications and          
  coordination of partner organization(s); and realistic budget and matching       
  resources.                                                                       
                                                                                   
                                                                                   


                                                                              11-08
15.930 CHESAPEAKE BAY GATEWAYS NETWORK
   (Chesapeake Bay Gateways)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL PARK SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Chesapeake Bay Initiative Act of 1993, Public Law 105-312, Section 501-2.
OBJECTIVES:
  To aid State and local governments, local communities, nonprofit organizations
  and the private sector in conserving, restoring and interpreting important
  historic, cultural, recreational and natural resources within the Chesapeake Bay
  watershed and the Chesapeake Bay Gateways Network.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Gateways grants assist projects at designated Gateways in the Chesapeake Bay
  Gateways Network. Only projects related to a currently designated Gateway are
  eligible for assistance. Gateways can be sites, water trails, land trails, byways,
  regional information centers or hubs and are designated through a separate
  nomination process. Information on the nomination process can be found at
  www.baygateways.net.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible applicants are limited to designated Gateways, their managing
  organizations or partners acting on their behalf including state and local
  governments and non-profit organizations. Only projects related to a currently
  designated Gateway are eligible for assistance. Gateways are designated through
  a separate nomination process.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  General Public.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applications may be submitted by managing organization for a designated
  Gateway or partners acting on behalf of a designated Gateway, including state
  and local governments and non-profit organizations.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None required, but it is suggested that applicants contact the Chesapeake Bay
  Gateways Network program office and discuss the proposed project to aid in the
  applicants proposal process. This program is excluded from coverage under
  E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  The grant opportunity and SF 424 application package will be posted on
  www.grants.gov. Additional information can be found at the Chesapeake Bay
  Gateways network web site, www.baygateways.net. The application package
  includes information about the application process and project activities that
  may receive priority attention.
Award Procedure:
  The application request is reviewed by a panel made up of representatives of the
  Gateways Network Working Group and National Park Service (NPS) staff. The
  members independently review and rank each proposal, meet as a panel to
  discuss the proposals and recommend to the Superintendent, NPS Chesapeake
  Bay Program Office, proposals to be funded. The NPS makes the final decision
  on funding. Applicants selected for funding are then contacted regarding next
  steps.
Deadlines:
  For public information, deadlines are displayed at www.grants.gov and at the
  Gateways website, www.baygateways.net. The application deadline is typically
  set for May, June, or July.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  It typically takes 45 to 60 days after the application deadline for selection and
  award or disapproval.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Per Public Law 105-312, Section 501 requested funds shall not exceed 50
  percent (50 percent) of eligible project costs and shall be made on the condition
  that nonfederal sources, including inkind contributions of services or materials,
  provide the remainder of eligible project costs. This means that Federal funds
  must be matched by an equal or greater amount of nonfederal funds which may
  include in-kind contributions of services or materials including volunteer labor,
  cash or revenue sources dedicated to the same project. Applicants should read
  the grant program guidelines for details on the various kinds and qualifications
  of matching funds.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The project period is typically for a time period not to exceed 18 months.
Reports:
  All Gateway projects and activities are monitored for progress and compliance
  with the use of Quarterly and Final Narrative Reports, a Financial Status Report
  and an SF 269. Recipients are also required to submit an SF 270 for
  reimbursement payments.
                                                                                  533
