  None.                                                                                
Account Identification:                                                                
  15-0700-0-1-751.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  (Travel and Materials) FY 07 $2,500,000; FY 08 est $3,200,000; and FY 09 est         
  not reported. (Note: Agencies will bear the cost of training on a reimbursable       
  basis.)                                                                              
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  None.                                                                                
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  Each year about 600 law enforcement officers participate in ATF                      
  arson/explosives investigative training, cigarette tax audit enforcement,            
  undercover investigative training, and armed criminal training.                      
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  None.                                                                                
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  None.                                                                                
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Chief, National Center for Explosives Training and Research, 99 New York             
  Avenue, NE., Washington, DC 20226. Telephone: Commercial (202) 648-8401.             
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.atf.gov .

                                                                                       
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  16.004, Law Enforcement Assistance_Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs Training;

                                                                                       
  16.300, Law Enforcement Assistance_FBI Advanced Police Training; 16.302,

                                                                                       
  Law Enforcement Assistance_FBI Field Police Training; 21.004, Exchange of

                                                                                       
  Federal Tax Information With State Tax Agencies.

                                                                                       
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  None.

                                                                                       
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

                                                                                       
  None.

                                                                                       
                                                                                       
16.013 VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN ACT COURT                                                
TRAINING AND IMPROVEMENT GRANTS                                                        
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  OFFICE ON VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN, DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE                              
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  This program was authorized by the Violence Against Women and Department             
  of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005, Title I, Section 105, Public Law 109-        
  162, 42 U.S.C. 14043a.                                                               
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To improve court responses to adult and youth domestic violence, dating              
  violence, sexual assault, and stalking.                                              
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants (Discretionary).                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Funds may be used for the following statutory program purposes: (1) improved         
  internal civil and criminal court functions, responses, practices, and procedures;   
  (2) education for court-based and court-related personnel on issues relating to      
  victims' needs, including safety, security, privacy, confidentiality, and economic   
  independence, as well as information about perpetrator behavior and best             
  practices for holding perpetrators accountable; (3) collaboration and training       
  with Federal, State, tribal, territorial, and local public agencies and officials and
  nonprofit, nongovernmental organizations to improve implementation and               
  enforcement of relevant Federal, State, tribal, territorial, and local law; (4)      
  enabling courts or court-based or court-related programs to develop new or           
  enhance current -- (A) court infrastructure (such as specialized courts, dockets,    
  intake centers, or interpreter services); (B) community-based initiatives within     
  the court system (such as court watch programs, victim assistants, or                
  community-based supplementary services); (C) offender management,                    
  monitoring, and accountability programs; (D) safe and confidential information-      
  storage and -sharing databases within and between court systems; (E) education       
  and outreach programs to improve community access, including enhanced                
  access for underserved populations; and (F) other projects likely to improve         
  court responses to domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and           
  stalking; and (5) providing technical assistance to Federal, State, tribal,          
  territorial, or local courts wishing to improve their practices and procedures or to 
  develop new programs.                                                                
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Federal, State, tribal, territorial, or local courts or court-based programs; and    
  national, State, tribal, territorial, or local private, nonprofit organizations with 
  demonstrated expertise in developing and providing judicial education about          
  domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking.                     
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Courts and nonprofit organizations.                                                  
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Applicants must certify in writing that: (A) any courts or court-based personnel     
  working directly with or making decisions about adult or youth parties               
  experiencing domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking        
                                                                                       
                                                                                  11-08
  have completed or will complete education about domestic violence, dating
  violence, sexual assault, and stalking; (B) any education program developed
  under section 14043 of this title has been or will be developed with significant
  input from and in collaboration with a national, tribal, State, territorial, or local
  victim services provider or coalition; and (C) the grantee's internal
  organizational policies, procedures, or rules do not require mediation or
  counseling between offenders and victims physically together in cases where
  domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking is an issue.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office designated
  as the single point of contact in his or her state for more information on the
  processes the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State
  has selected the program for review. Application forms furnished by the Federal
  agency, in accordance with 28 CFR Part 66 (Common Rule), must be used for
  this program.
Application Procedure:
  Applicants must apply on-line at the grants.gov portal. The receipt, review, and
  analysis of applications will follow Office on Violence Against Women policies
  and procedures for the administration of grant applications. This program is
  subject to provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110.
Award Procedure:
  Upon approval by the Office on Violence Against Women, online notification is
  sent to the applicant agency with copies of the Grant Award. One copy of the
  Grant Award must be signed electronically by an authorized official and
  returned to the Office of Justice Programs.
Deadlines:
  This is a newly established program. OVW expects to issue a solicitation in
  Fiscal Year 2009. Check for online announcements at www.ovw.usdoj.gov.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Applicants will be notified by the end of the fiscal year.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Renewals are considered on a case-by-case basis.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Grants will be made for amounts up to 100 percent of the costs of the programs
  or projects contained in the approved applications. Match is not required for this
  grant program; however, applicants are encouraged to maximize the impact of
  Federal dollars by contributing to the cost of the project. Supplemental
  contributions may be cash, in-kind services, or a combination of both.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Information regarding length of awards will be included in an Application Kit
  for the program. Funds are released on an as-needed basis to the grantee.
Reports:
  Semi-annual progress reports, quarterly financial reports, and a final report are
  required, as stipulated in the program regulations and the effective edition of the
  OJP Financial Guide. Progress reports shall explain the activities carried out and
  include an assessment of the effectiveness of those activities in achieving the
  purposes of the program, including number of persons served and numbers of
  persons seeking services who could not be served.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  24, 1997), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organization,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  The award recipient must keep complete records on disposition of funds.
Account Identification:
  15-0409-0-1-754.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $0; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est 1,579,200.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Not applicable.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Not applicable.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  The OJP Financial Guide is applicable.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Office on Violence Against Women, Department of Justice, 800 K Street, N.W.,
  Washington, DC 20530; Telephone: (202) 307-6026.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ovw.usdoj.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  16.588, Violence Against Women Formula Grants; 16.587, Violence Against
  Women Discretionary Grants for Indian Tribal Governments; 16.589, Rural
                                                                                     539
