  Domestic Violence, Dating Violence, Sexual Assault, and Stalking Assistance          
  Program.                                                                             
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  Not applicable.                                                                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  Criteria are established by the Office on Violence Against Women and included        
  in an annual Application Kit.                                                        
                                                                                       
                                                                                       
16.014 ENGAGING MEN AND YOUTH IN PREVENTING

                                                                                       
DOMESTIC VIOLENCE, DATING VIOLENCE, SEXUAL                                             
ASSAULT, AND STALKING                                                                  
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:

                                                                                       
  OFFICE ON VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN, DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

                                                                                       
AUTHORIZATION:

  This program was authorized by the Violence Against Women and Department             
  of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005, Title IV, Section 401, Public Law 109-       
  162, 42 U.S.C. 14043d-4.                                                             
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To develop or enhance programs related to engaging men and youth in                  
  preventing domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking by       
  helping them to develop mutually respectful, nonviolent relationships.               
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants (Discretionary).                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Grants may be awarded for the following statutory purposes: (A) to develop or        
  enhance community-based programs, including gender-specific programs in              
  accordance with applicable laws that--(i) encourage children and youth to pursue     
  nonviolent relationships and reduce their risk of becoming victims or                
  perpetrators of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking;     
  and (ii) that include at a minimum--(I) information on domestic violence, dating     
  violence, sexual assault, stalking, or child sexual abuse and how they affect        
                                                                                       
  children and youth; and II) strategies to help participants be as safe as possible;

                                                                                       
  or (B) to create public education campaigns and community organizing to

                                                                                       
  encourage men and boys to work as allies with women and girls to prevent

                                                                                       
  violence against women and girls conducted by entities that have experience in       
  conducting public education campaigns that address domestic violence, dating         
  violence, sexual assault, or stalking.                                               
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Eligible entities under the first statutory purpose area are--(A) nonprofit,         
  nongovernmental domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking      
  victim service providers or coalitions; (B) community-based child or youth           
  services organizations with demonstrated experience and expertise in addressing      
  the needs and concerns of young people; (C) a State, territorial, tribal, or unit of 
  local governmental entity that is partnered with an organization described in        
  subparagraph (A) or (B); or (D) a program that provides culturally specific          
  services. Eligible entities under the second statutory purpose area (public          
  education campaigns and community organizing) are nonprofit,                         
  nongovernmental organizations or coalitions that have a documented history of        
  creating and administering effective public education campaigns addressing the       
  prevention of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault or stalking.        
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Other nonprofit, nongovernmental organizations including community and faith-        
  based organizations.                                                                 
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  None.

Preapplication Coordination:

  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental

                                                                                       
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office designated       
  as the single point of contact in his or her state for more information on the       
  processes the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State 
  has selected the program for review. Application forms furnished by the Federal      
  agency, in accordance with 28 CFR Part 66 (Common Rule), must be used for            
  this program.                                                                        
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Applicants must apply on-line at the grants.gov portal. The receipt, review, and     
  analysis of applications will follow Office on Violence Against Women policies       
  and procedures for the administration of grant applications. This program is         
  subject to provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110.                                     
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  Upon approval by the Office on Violence Against Women, online notification is        
  sent to the applicant agency with copies of the Grant Award. One copy of the         
  Grant Award must be signed electronically by an authorized official and              
  returned to the Office of Justice Programs.                                          
Deadlines:                                                                             
  This is a newly established program. OVW expects to issue a solicitation in          
  Fiscal Year 2009. Check for online announcements at www.ovw.usdoj.gov.               
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Applicants will be notified by the end of the fiscal year.                           
Appeals:                                                                               
540                                                                              11-08

  None.
Renewals:
  Renewals are considered on a case-by-case basis.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Grants will be made for amounts up to 100 percent of the costs of the programs
  or projects contained in the approved applications. Match is not required for this
  grant program; however, applicants are encouraged to maximize the impact of
  Federal dollars by contributing to the cost of the project. Supplemental
  contributions may be cash, in-kind services, or a combination of both.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grants under this program will be for a period of two years. Funds are released
  on an as-needed basis to the grantee.
Reports:
  Semi-annual progress reports, quarterly financial reports, and a final report are
  required, as stipulated in the program regulations and the effective edition of the
  OJP Financial Guide. Progress reports shall explain the activities carried out and
  include an assessment of the effectiveness of those activities in achieving the
  purposes of the program, including number of persons served and numbers of
  persons seeking services who could not be served.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  24, 1997), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organization,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  The award recipient must keep complete records on disposition of funds.
Account Identification:
  15-0409-0-1-754.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $0; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est $1,579,200.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Not applicable.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Not applicable.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  The OJP Financial Guide is applicable.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Office on Violence Against Women, Department of Justice, 800 K Street, N.W.,
  Washington, DC 20530; Telephone: (202) 307-6026.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ovw.usdoj.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  16.588, Violence Against Women Formula Grants; 16.587, Violence Against
  Women Discretionary Grants for Indian Tribal Governments; 16.589, Rural
  Domestic Violence, Dating Violence, Sexual Assault, and Stalking Assistance
  Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Criteria are established by the Office on Violence Against Women and included
  in an annual Application Kit.
16.016 CULTURALLY AND LINGUISTICALLY SPECIFIC
SERVICES PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE ON VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN, DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
AUTHORIZATION:
  This program was authorized by the Violence Against Women and Department
  of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005, Title I, Section 121, Public Law 109-
  162, 42 U.S.C. 14045a.
OBJECTIVES:
  To enhance culturally and linguistically specific services for victims of domestic
  violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Discretionary).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds shall be used for the following statutory program purposes: (A) working
  with State and local governments and social service agencies to develop and
  enhance effective strategies to provide culturally and linguistically specific
  services to victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and
  stalking; (B) increasing communities' capacity to provide culturally and
  linguistically specific resources and support for victims of domestic violence,
  dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking crimes and their families; (C)
  strengthening criminal justice interventions, by providing training for law
  enforcement, prosecution, courts, probation, and correctional facilities on
