  culturally and linguistically specific responses to domestic violence, dating       
  violence, sexual assault, and stalking; (D) enhancing traditional services to       
  victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking         
  through the leadership of culturally and linguistically specific programs offering  
  services to victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and      
  stalking; (E) working in cooperation with the community to develop education        
  and prevention strategies highlighting culturally and linguistically specific issues
  and resources regarding victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual       
  assault, and stalking; (F) providing culturally and linguistically specific         
  programs for children exposed to domestic violence, dating violence, sexual         
  assault, and stalking; (G) providing culturally and linguistically specific         
  resources and services that address the safety, economic, housing, and workplace    
                                                                                      
  needs of victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or

                                                                                      
  stalking, including emergency assistance; or (H) examining the dynamics of

                                                                                      
  culture and its impact on victimization and healing.

                                                                                      
Applicant Eligibility:

                                                                                      
  Community-based programs whose primary purpose is providing culturally and

                                                                                      
  linguistically specific services to victims of domestic violence, dating violence,

                                                                                      
  sexual assault, and stalking; and community-based programs whose primary

                                                                                      
  purpose is providing culturally and linguistically specific services who can

                                                                                      
  partner with a program having demonstrated expertise in serving victims of

                                                                                      
  domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking.

                                                                                      
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Community and faith-based programs.                                                 
Credentials/Documentation:

                                                                                      
  None.

Preapplication Coordination:

  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental          
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office designated

                                                                                      
  as the single point of contact in his or her state for more information on the      
  processes the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State
  has selected the program for review. Application forms furnished by the Federal     
  agency, in accordance with 28 CFR Part 66 (Common Rule), must be used for           
  this program.                                                                       
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Applicants must apply on-line at the grants.gov portal. The receipt, review, and    
  analysis of applications will follow Office on Violence Against Women policies      
  and procedures for the administration of grant applications. This program is        
  subject to provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110.                                    
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Upon approval by the Office on Violence Against Women, online notification is       
  sent to the applicant agency with copies of the Grant Award. One copy of the        
  Grant Award must be signed electronically by an authorized official and             
  returned to the Office of Justice Programs.                                         
Deadlines:                                                                            
  This is a newly established program. OVW expects to issue a solicitation in         
  Fiscal Year 2009. Check for online announcements at www.ovw.usdoj.gov.              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Applicants will be notified by the end of the fiscal year.                          
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:

                                                                                      
  Renewals are considered on a case-by-case basis.

                                                                                      
Formula and Matching Requirements:

                                                                                      
  Grants will be made for amounts up to 100 percent of the costs of the programs

                                                                                      
  or projects contained in the approved applications. Match is not required for this

                                                                                      
  grant program; however, applicants are encouraged to maximize the impact of

                                                                                      
  Federal dollars by contributing to the cost of the project. Supplemental

                                                                                      
  contributions may be cash, in-kind services, or a combination of both.

                                                                                      
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Awards will be two years. Funds are released on an as-needed basis to the

                                                                                      
  grantee.

                                                                                      
Reports:

                                                                                      
  Semi-annual progress reports, quarterly financial reports, and a final report are

                                                                                      
  required, as stipulated in the program regulations and the effective edition of the

                                                                                      
  OJP Financial Guide. Progress reports shall explain the activities carried out and

                                                                                      
  include an assessment of the effectiveness of those activities in achieving the

                                                                                      
  purposes of the program, including number of persons served and numbers of

                                                                                      
  persons seeking services who could not be served.

                                                                                      
Audits:

                                                                                      
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June

                                                                                      
  24, 1997), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organization,"

                                                                                      
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in

                                                                                      
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that

                                                                                      
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal

                                                                                      
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted

                                                                                      
  in Circular No. A-133.

                                                                                      
Records:

                                                                                      
  The award recipient must keep complete records on disposition of funds.

                                                                                      
Account Identification:

                                                                                      


                                                                                 11-08
  15-0409-0-1-754.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $0; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est $4,119,080.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Not applicable.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Not applicable.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  The OJP Financial Guide is applicable.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Office on Violence Against Women, Department of Justice, 800 K Street, N.W.,
  Washington, DC 20530; Telephone: (202) 307-6026.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ovw.usdoj.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  16.588, Violence Against Women Formula Grants; 16.587, Violence Against
  Women Discretionary Grants for Indian Tribal Governments; 16.589, Rural
  Domestic Violence, Dating Violence, Sexual Assault, and Stalking Assistance
  Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Criteria are established by the Office on Violence Against Women and included
  in an annual Application Kit.
16.017 SEXUAL ASSAULT SERVICES PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE ON VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN, DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
AUTHORIZATION:
  This program was authorized by the Violence Against Women and Department
  of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005, 42 U.S.C. 14045a.
OBJECTIVES:
  To increase intervention, advocacy, accompaniment, support services, and
  related assistance for adult, youth, and child victims of sexual assault; family
  and household members of such victims; and those collaterally affected by the
  victimization, except for the perpetrator of such victimization.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants; Formula Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds are for intervention and related assistance to victims of sexual assault,
  including: (i) 24-hour hotline services providing crisis intervention services and
  referral; (ii) accompaniment and advocacy through medical, criminal justice,
  and social support systems, including medical facilities, police, and court
  proceedings; (iii) crisis intervention, short-term individual and group support
  services, and comprehensive service coordination and supervision to assist
  sexual assault victims and family or household members; (iv) information and
  referral to assist the sexual assault victim and family or household members; (v)
  community-based, linguistically and culturally specific services and support
  mechanisms, including outreach activities for underserved communities; and
  (vi) the development and distribution of materials on issues related to the
  services described in clauses (i) through (v).
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible applicants are States and territories.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Beneficiaries are rape crisis centers and other nonprofit, nongovernmental
  organizations including community and faith-based organizations.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Each application submitted under this program shall-- (i) set forth procedures
  designed to ensure meaningful involvement of the State or territorial sexual
  assault coalition and representatives from underserved communities in the
  development of the application and the implementation of the plans; (ii) set forth
  procedures designed to ensure an equitable distribution of grants and grant funds
  within the State or territory and between urban and rural areas within such State
  or territory; (iii) identify the State or territorial agency that is responsible for the
  administration of programs and activities; and (iv) meet other such
  requirements as the Attorney General reasonably determines are necessary to
  carry out the purposes and provisions of this section.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office designated
  as the single point of contact in his or her state for more information on the
  processes the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State
  has selected the program for review. Application forms furnished by the Federal
  agency, in accordance with 28 CFR Part 66 (Common Rule), must be used for
  this program.
Application Procedure:
  Applicants must apply on-line at the online Grants Management System (GMS)
  portal. The receipt, review, and analysis of applications will follow Office on
                                                                                         541
