  Violence Against Women policies and procedures for the administration of grant        
  applications. This program is subject to provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110.

Award Procedure:                                                                        
  Upon approval by the Office on Violence Against Women, online notification is         
  sent to the applicant agency with copies of the Grant Award. One copy of the          
  Grant Award must be signed electronically by an authorized official and               
  returned to the Office of Justice Programs.                                           
                                                                                        
Deadlines:

  This is a newly established program. OVW expects to issue a solicitation in           
  Fiscal Year 2009. Check for online announcements at www.ovw.usdoj.gov.                
                                                                                        
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

  Applicants will be notified by the end of the fiscal year.                            
Appeals:                                                                                
  None.                                                                                 
Renewals:                                                                               
  Renewals are considered on a case-by-case basis.                                      
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                      
  By statute, OVW will allocate to each State not less than 1.50 percent of the total   
  amount appropriated in a fiscal year for grants under this program, except that       
  the United States Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam, the District of               
  Columbia, Puerto Rico, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands           
  shall each be allocated 0.125 percent of the total appropriations. The remaining      
  funds shall be allotted to each State and each territory in an amount that bears      
  the same ratio to such remaining funds as the population of such State and such       
  territory bears to the population of all the States and the territories. The District 
                                                                                        
  of Columbia shall be treated as a territory for purposes of calculating its

                                                                                        
  allocation under the preceding formula. Grants will be made for amounts up to

                                                                                        
  100 percent of the costs of the programs or projects contained in the approved

                                                                                        
  applications. Match is not required for this grant program; however, applicants

                                                                                        
  are encouraged to maximize the impact of Federal dollars by contributing to the

                                                                                        
  cost of the project. Supplemental contributions may be cash, in-kind services, or

                                                                                        
  a combination of both.

                                                                                        
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

                                                                                        
  OVW will make awards for at least one year. Funds are released on an as-

                                                                                        
  needed basis to the grantee.

                                                                                        
Reports:

                                                                                        
  Annual progress reports, quarterly financial reports, and a final report are

                                                                                        
  required, as stipulated in the program regulations and the effective edition of the

                                                                                        
  OJP Financial Guide. Progress reports shall explain the activities carried out and

                                                                                        
  include an assessment of the effectiveness of those activities in achieving the

                                                                                        
  purposes of the program, including number of persons served and numbers of

                                                                                        
  persons seeking services who could not be served.

                                                                                        
Audits:

                                                                                        
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June

                                                                                        
  24, 1997), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organization,"

                                                                                        
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in

                                                                                        
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that      
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal            
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted      
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                                
Records:                                                                                
  The award recipient must keep complete records on disposition of funds.               
Account Identification:                                                                 
  15-0409-0-1-754.                                                                      
Obligations:                                                                            
  FY 07 est not available; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est 5,264,000.            
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

                                                                                        
  Not applicable.

                                                                                        
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

                                                                                        
  Not applicable.

                                                                                        
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

                                                                                        
  The OJP Financial Guide is applicable.

                                                                                        
Regional or Local Office:

  None.                                                                                 
Headquarters Office:                                                                    
  Office on Violence Against Women, Department of Justice, 800 K Street, N.W.,          
  Washington, DC 20530; Telephone: (202) 307-6026.                                      
Web Site Address:                                                                       
  http://www.ovw.usdoj.gov.                                                             
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                       
  16.588, Violence Against Women Formula Grants; 16.587, Violence Against               
  Women Discretionary Grants for Indian Tribal Governments; 16.589, Rural               
  Domestic Violence, Dating Violence, Sexual Assault, and Stalking Assistance           
  Program.                                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                       
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                       
  Criteria are established by the Office on Violence Against Women and included         
  in an annual Application Kit.                                                         
                                                                                        
                                                                                        


542                                                                               11-08

16.019 TRIBAL REGISTRY
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE ON VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN, DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
AUTHORIZATION:
  This program was authorized by the Violence Against Women and Department
  of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005, Title IX, Section 905(b), Public Law
  109-162, 28 U.S.C. 534 note.
OBJECTIVES:
  To develop and maintain a national tribal sex offender registry and a tribal
  protection order registry containing civil and criminal orders of protection issued
  by Indian tribes and participating jurisdictions.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Cooperative Agreements.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds may be used to develop and maintain a national tribal sex offender
  registry and a tribal protection order registry containing civil and criminal orders
  of protection issued by Indian tribes and participating jurisdictions.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible applicants are tribes, tribal organizations, or tribal nonprofit
  organizations.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Beneficiary Eligibility: Beneficiaries include tribes and tribal law enforcement.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or office
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the processes the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if
  the State has selected the program for review. Application forms furnished by
  the Federal agency, in accordance with 28 CFR Part 66 (Common Rule), must
  be used for this program.
Application Procedure:
  Applicants must apply on-line at the grants.gov portal. The receipt, review, and
  analysis of application will follow Office on Violence Against Women policies
  and procedures for the administration of grant applications. This program is
  subject to provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110.
Award Procedure:
  Upon approval by the Office on Violence Against Women, online notification is
  sent to the applicant agency with copies of the Grant Award. One copy of the
  Grant Award must be signed electronically by an authorized official and
  returned to the Office of Justice Programs.
Deadlines:
  Contact the Office on Violence Against Women for application deadlines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Applicants will be notified by the end of the fiscal year.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Renewals are considered on a case-by-case basis.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Grants will be made for amounts up to 100 percent of the costs of the programs
  or projects contained in the approved applications. Match is not required for this
  grant program; however, applicants are encouraged to maximize the impact of
  Federal dollars by contributing to the cost of the project. Supplemental
  contributions may be cash, in-kind services, or a combination of both.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Funds are released on an as-needed basis to the grantee.
Reports:
  Semi-annual progress reports, quarterly financial reports, and a final report are
  required, as stipulated in the effective edition of the OJP Financial Guide.
  Progress reports shall explain the activities carried out and include an
  assessment of the effectiveness of those activities in achieving the purposes of
  the program.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  24, 1997), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  The award recipient must keep complete records on disposition of funds.
Account Identification:
  15-0409-0-1-754.
Obligations:
  FY 07 est not reported; FY 08 est not reported; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  None.
