PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  None.                                                                               
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  The OJP Financial Guide is applicable.                                              
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Office on Violence Against Women, Department of Justice, 800 K Street, N.W.,        
  Washington, DC 20530; Telephone: (202) 307-6026.                                    
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.ovw.usdoj.gov.                                                           
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  16.588, Violence Against Women Formula Grants; 16.587, Violence Against             
  Women Discretionary Grants for Indian Tribal Governments; 16.589, Rural             
  Domestic Violence, Dating Violence, Sexual Assault, and Stalking Assistance         
  Program.                                                                            
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  None.                                                                               
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Criteria are established by the Office on Violence Against Women and included       
  in an annual Application Kit.                                                       
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
16.100 DESEGREGATION OF PUBLIC EDUCATION                                              
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  CIVIL RIGHTS DIVISION, DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE                                        
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, Title IV, Public Law 88-352, 42 U.S.C.        
  2000(c), Title VI, 42 U.S.C. 2000(d), Title IX, 42 U.S.C. 2000(h-2); Equal          
  Educational Opportunities Act of 1974, Public Law 93-380, 20 U.S.C. 1701, et        
  seq.; Education Amendments of 1972, Title IX, Public Law 92-318, 20 U.S.C.          
  1681.                                                                               
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To secure equal educational opportunity for persons regardless of race, color,      
  religion, sex, or national origin.                                                  
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Provision of Specialized Services.                                                  
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  The Justice Department may go to court to obtain an order to desegregate a          
  public school (elementary or secondary levels) or public college. The Attorney      
  General may initiate legal proceedings to further orderly desegregation upon        
  receiving a meritorious written complaint from (1) any parent or group of           
  parents whose minor children are being deprived by a school board of equal          
  protection of the laws; or (2) any individual or parent of an individual who has    
  been denied admission to or not permitted to continue in attendance at a public     
  college or university because of race, color, religion, sex or national origin. The 
  Attorney General must certify that the suit will materially further the orderly     
  process of desegregation. The Attorney General may also intervene in any case       
  in which the plaintiff alleges a denial of equal protection of the law on the basis 
  of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin. In addition, the Attorney General
  may litigate Title VI, Title IX (of the Education Amendments of 1972), Section      
  504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 referrals received from the Department of     
  Education, previously the Department of Health Education and Welfare, to            
  vindicate the rights of individuals excluded from participation in, denied the      
  benefits of, or subjected to discrimination under any program or activity           
  receiving Federal financial assistance on account of their race, color, sex,        
  national origin, or disability. The Attorney General may also go to court to        
  ensure that school districts take appropriate steps to overcome language barriers   
  that impede equal participation in the district's instructional program pursuant to 
  the Equal Educational Opportunities Act.                                            
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Parent or group of parents in the case of public schools. An individual or his/her  
  parents in the case of a public college.                                            
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Parent or group of parents in the case of public schools. An individual or his/her  
  parents in the case of a public college.                                            
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                      
Application Procedure:

                                                                                      
  Contact the headquarters office listed below.

                                                                                      
Award Procedure:

                                                                                      
  Not applicable.

Deadlines:                                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Appeals:                                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Renewals:                                                                             


                                                                                 11-08
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Not applicable.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Not applicable.
Reports:
  Not applicable.
Audits:
  Not applicable.
Records:
  Not applicable.
Account Identification:
  15-0128-0-1-752.
Obligations:
  (Salaries and Expenses) FY 07 $5,890,000; FY 08 est $5,916,000; and FY 09
  est $6,091,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Not applicable.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Among the Section's most important priorities is its responsibility to monitor
  approximately 240 school districts currently covered by desegregation orders in
  cases in which the United States is a party. To ensure that districts comply with
  their obligations, the Section routinely reviews matters relating to student
  assignment, faculty assignment and hiring, transportation policies,
  extracurricular activities, the availability of equitable facilities, and the
  distribution of resources. The Section also routinely responds to requests by
  other parties to modify court orders to reflect current circumstances, and to
  requests by parties, as well as courts, regarding unitary status and the ultimate
  dismissal of the lawsuit. As a result of these activities, the Section obtained
  various types of relief including: improved facilities for minority students; the
  elimination of one-race classrooms and schools; the desegregation of faculty and
  recruitment of minority faculty and staff; more equitable transportation routes
  for minority students; the elimination of segregative transfers; and the
  elimination of race-based extracurricular activities. Also, where appropriate,
  EOS has agreed that school districts have eliminated the vestiges of the dual
  system to the extent practicable and thus the district has achieved unitary status.
  For instance, in FY 2008, in Graham and United States v. Evangeline Parish
  Sch. Bd. (W.D. LA), the Division filed a motion for further relief because of the
  poor facilities at a majority-black high school and the failure of the district to
  provide agreed upon programming. The parties are engaging in discovery and
  the case is set for a hearing. In U.S. v. Claiborne Parish Sch. Dist. (LA), EOS
  has reached an agreement with the district to close a virtually one-race school
  and re-assign students on a desegregated basis to the extent practicable. In
  United States v. McComb Mun. Sep. Sch. Sys. (MS), the court issued a decision
  resolving our motion for further relief and the district's motion for unitary status.
  The court agreed that the district could not be declared unitary in the area of
  student assignment because its student assignment policies at Otken and
  Kennedy elementary schools violated the governing desegregation order and
  federal law. The court further ruled that it could not grant the district unitary
  status with respect to its homecoming court, because new policies that replaced
  the district's prior race-based regime had not been in place for a reasonable
  period of time. The court asked the district to formulate new student assignment
  policies for Otken and Kennedy and submit them to the United States for
  approval. We have received a plan for the district and are in the process of
  providing the district with comments and drafting a consent decree. In Monteilh
  and United States v. St. Landry Parish Sch. Bd. (LA), the Division conducted a
  review of the district's personnel assignment, at the request of the court. The
  Division notified the District that it operated dual principal assignment which
  was inconsistent with its constitutional obligations to desegregate. The court
  ordered the District to reassign its principals in a manner that furthered
  desegration. The district has since reassigned principals for the 2008-2009
  school year. Other notable achievements in safeguarding the educational
  opportunities for all students in FY 2008 included: (1) since the start of FY
  2001, initiating over 275 case reviews; (2) continuing to monitor school districts
  under court order and notifying 41 school districts regarding compliance
  concerns and working to resolving those concerns; (3) filing motions seeking
  relief in Crisp County, Georgia, Chicago, Illinois, and Evangeline Parish,
  Louisiana; (4) working with parties in longstanding desegregation cases to
  ensure that requests for unitary status were properly evaluated and agreeing to
  unitary status in 29 cases where
  oureffortshelpedachieve unitary school systems; and (6) opposing requests for
  declarations of unitary status in cases, and attempting where appropriate to
  resolve the cases amicably. The Section continued its efforts in cases involving
  religious discrimination. Specifically, investigations were opened into
  complaints alleging discrimination on the basis of religion in, among other areas,
  freedom of expression, religious dress, access to facilities, and harassment. For
  instance, we are negotiating a settlement agreement addressing the harassment of
  a student based on religion and national origin, in addition to the district's
  overall anti-harassment policies. To ensure equal educational opportunities for
  English Language Learners (ELL), the Section, as part of a nationwide effort,
                                                                                     543
