  because the applicant has in good faith exercised any right under the Consumer        
  Credit Protection Act. Title II of the 1964 Civil Rights Act prohibits                
  discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin and religion in places    
  of public accommodation, which are defined to include hotels, motels,                 
  restaurants, gas stations, and places of entertainment. Title III prohibits the       
  denial of equal protection rights in public facilities. Section 2 of the Religious    
  Land Use and Institutionalized Persons Act (RLUIPA) prohibits local                   
  governments from significantly burdening the exercise of religion or                  
  discriminating against religious institutions in their land use and zoning            
  decisions. The Servicemembers Civil Relief Act provides for the temporary             
  suspension of judicial and administrative proceedings and civil protections in        
  areas such as housing and credit for military personnel while they are on active      
  duty.                                                                                 
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                    
  Provision of Specialized Services.                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                              
  The Fair Housing Act, which is found in Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of         
  1968, as amended by the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988, is designed to           
  ensure freedom from discrimination in the sale, rental and financing of housing,      
  and other related activities. The Act provides two major avenues of enforcement       
  by the Department. First, the Attorney General has independent authority to           
  bring civil actions in Federal courts whenever he/she has reasonable cause to         
                                                                                        
  believe that any person or group of persons is engaged in a pattern or practice of

                                                                                        
  discrimination or when he/she has reasonable cause to believe any group has

                                                                                        
  been denied such rights in a case of general public importance. Under its pattern

                                                                                        
  or practice authority, the Department may seek appropriate injunctive relief,         
  actual and punitive damages for any persons injured by the discrimination, and        
  civil penalties of up to $55,000 against a defendant for the first violation and up   
  to $110,000 for subsequent violations of the Act. Second, the Department also         
  has authority to seek relief on behalf of individuals in certain circumstances, as    
  follows. The Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) is required            
  to investigate and conciliate any complaint of housing discrimination filed with      
  that agency. If it cannot be conciliated, HUD is authorized to file an                
  administrative charge if it determines there is reasonable cause to believe the       
  Fair Housing Act has been violated. At that point, either party may elect to have     
  such charge heard in Federal court, and if such election is made, the Department      
  of Justice brings suit in Federal court on behalf of the complainant and may seek     
  actual and punitive damages in such an action. Aside from enforcement by the          
  Federal government, private suits alleging illegal discrimination may be filed in     
  the appropriate Federal or State court within two years of alleged discrimination.    
  The ECOA, as amended, is designed to prohibit certain types of discrimination         
  in all aspects of credit transactions. Persons who believe that they are victims of   
  such discrimination may file complaints with one of the appropriate Federal           
  regulatory agencies or may bring the information to the attention of the Attorney     
  General. The Department of Justice is authorized to institute litigation in Federal   
  court when a matter is referred to the Attorney General by an agency responsible      
  for administrative enforcement of the Act or when he/she has reasonable cause         
  to believe that one or more creditors are engaged in a pattern or practice of         
  discrimination in violation of the Act. The Act gives the United States authority     
  to seek actual and punitive damages for any persons aggrieved by the                  
  discrimination. In addition, an aggrieved person may institute suit in a Federal      
  court pursuant to the ECOA. Title II of the 1964 Civil Rights Act is designed to      
  prohibit discrimination in certain kinds of public accommodations. It gives the       
  Attorney General authority to bring a legal action when he/she determines that        
  there is reasonable cause to believe that any person or group is engaged in a         
  pattern or practice of discrimination which violates the provisions of Title II.      
  Remedies available in such cases are limited to injunctive relief and the             
  Department does not have authority to seek monetary relief. Private individuals       
  also may bring legal action under Title II. In addition, there are other civil rights 
  laws which give such individuals authority to take legal action against public        
  accommodations not covered by Title II. Title III allows the Attorney General to      
  file a civil action in federal district court after receiving a written complaint from
  an individual who alleges the denial of equal protection rights in a public           
                                                                                        
  facility, but is unable to initiate or maintain an independent action. 42 U.S.C.

  2000b(a). The Religious Land Use and Institutionalized Persons Act passed in

  September, 2000 prohibits State and local                                             
  governmentsfromusingtheir authority to burden the exercise of religion, exclude

                                                                                        
  religious assemblies from their jurisdictions, or discriminate against religious      
  institutions. It gives the Attorney General the authority to seek injunctive or       
  declaratory relief for violations of the Act. Private individuals may also bring      
  actions under the statute. The Servicemembers Civil Relief Act of 2003                
  provides for the temporary suspension of judicial and administrative proceedings      
  and civil protections in areas such as housing and credit for military personnel      
  while they are on active duty.                                                        
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                  
  All persons.                                                                          
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                
  All persons.                                                                          
Credentials/Documentation:

                                                                                        
  Not applicable.



                                                                                   11-08
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Contact the headquarters office listed below.
Award Procedure:
  Not applicable.
Deadlines:
  There is no deadline for the filing of pattern or practices cases seeking injunctive
  relief with respect to housing or lending discrimination under the Fair Housing
  Act or public accommodations. However, any individual filing a complaint with
  HUD pursuant to the enforcement scheme discussed in part 070, must file the
  complaint with HUD within 1 year of the occurrence or termination of an
  alleged discriminatory housing practice. Under the ECOA, any legal action must
  be taken within 2 years of the discriminatory occurrence.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Not applicable.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Not applicable.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Not applicable.
Reports:
  Not applicable.
Audits:
  Not applicable.
Records:
  Not applicable.
Account Identification:
  15-0128-0-1-752.
Obligations:
  (Salaries and Expenses) FY 07 est $14,168,000; FY 08 est $14,287,000; and FY
  09 est $15,022,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Not applicable.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  The Housing and Civil Enforcement Section's enforcement efforts continue to
  achieve significant accomplishments. In fiscal year 2007, the Section filed a
  total of 19 pattern or practice complaints and successfully resolved 24 pattern or
  practice cases. The Section continues its consistent efforts to enforce the
  accessibility provisions of the Act in conjunction with the President's New
  Freedom Initiative.loans; successful resolution of the Department's second case
  involving a violation of the land use provisions of the Religious Land Use and
  Institutionalized Persons Act (RLUIPA); and the filing of the Department's third
  and fourth new cases under RLUIPA challenging land use or zoning decisions
  by local governments that discriminate against houses of worship.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  None.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Justice, Civil Rights Division, Housing and Civil Enforcement
  Section, Washington, DC 20530. Telephone: (202) 514-4713. Contact: Office
  of Public Affairs, Department of Justice. Telephone: (Voice) (202) 514-2007;
  (TDD) (202) 514-1888.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.usdoj.gov.crt/housing/hcehome.html.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  None.
16.104 PROTECTION OF VOTING RIGHTS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  CIVIL RIGHTS DIVISION, DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Voting Rights Act of 1965, Public Law 89-110, 42 U.S.C. 1973-1973bb-1;
  Voting Rights Act Amendments of 1970, 1975, and 1982; Voting Rights
  Language Assistance Act of 1992; Public Laws 91-285, 94-73, 97-205, and 102-
  344; 42 U.S.C. 1971, 42 U.S.C. 1974; Uniformed and Overseas Citizens
  Absentee Voting Act, Public Law 99-410, 42 U.S.C. 1973ff; Voting
  Accessibility for the Elderly and Handicapped Act, Public Law 98-435, 42
  U.S.C. 1973ee; National Voter Registration Act of 1993, Public Law 103-31, 42
  U.S.C. 1973gg, Help America Vote Act of 2002, 42 U.S.C. 15301; Fannie Lou
  Hamer, Rosa Parks, and Coretta Scott King Voting Rights Act Reauthorization
  and Amendments Act of 2006, Public Law 109-246, 120 Stat. 577.
                                                                                     545
