OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To provide protection of an individual's right to register and vote in all local,   
  State and Federal elections without discrimination based on race, color,            
  membership in a language minority group, or age. To assure the rights of            
  persons who are disabled or are unable to read or write to receive assistance in    
  voting from a person of their choice. To assure the right to vote in Federal        
  elections to United States citizens residing overseas. To assure access to voter    
  registration and to polling places for the elderly and handicapped, and to assure   
  compliance with the National Voter Registration Act of 1993. To ensure that         
  States and local government units responsible for administration of federal         
  elections meet minimum election administration standards.                           
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Provision of Specialized Services.                                                  
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  The Voting Rights Act of 1965, as amended, prohibits state and local                
  governments from imposing or applying any voting standard, qualification,           
  prerequisite, or procedure in a manner that results in a denial or abridgment of    
  the right of any U.S. citizen to vote on account of race or color or because an     
  individual is a member of a language minority group. The VRA bans the use of        
  literacy and similar tests as a prerequisite to voter registration or voting,       
  authorizes voters in need of assistance in voting (because of illiteracy or         
  disability) to receive help from the person of their choice (other than their       
  employer or union leader), and lets registered voters vote for president even if    
  they change their residence shortly before a presidential election. Certain         
  specially covered States and political subdivisions are required to submit any      
  voting changes either to the District Court for the District of Columbia for a      
  declaratory judgment that the changes do not have a discriminatory purpose or       
  effect, or, in the alternative, to the U.S. Attorney General, who has 60 days in    
  which to object to the proposed changes. Changes to which the Attorney              
  General has objected are legally unenforceable unless a subsequent declaratory      
  judgment is issued by the District Court for the District of Columbia. The VRA      
  requires certain counties (under formulas in the act) to provide voting and         
  election information bilingually and authorizes the Attorney General to send        
  Federal voting observers to certain designated counties to monitor election day     
  polling place activities to prevent discrimination. Under the Uniformed and         
  Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act, 42 U.S.C. 1973ff, the Attorney General       
  enforces the right of U.S. citizens living outside of the United States to vote in  
  Federal elections. Under the Voting Accessibility for the Elderly and               
  Handicapped Act, 42 U.S.C. 1973ee, the States must provide accessible               
  registration and voting facilities for Federal elections. Under the National Voter  
  Registration Act of 1993, 42 U.S.C. 1973gg, the States must conduct voter           
  registration for Federal elections by mail and through motor vehicle and other      
  agencies. Under the Help America Vote Act of 2002, 42 U.S.C. 15301, the             
  States must administer federal elections in accord with minimal voting systems      
  standards, requirements for provisional voting and voting information and           
  requirements for computerized, statewide voter registration lists and voters who    
  register by mail.                                                                   
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  All U.S. citizens old enough to vote.                                               
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  All U.S. citizens old enough to vote.                                               
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                      
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Contact the headquarters office listed below.                                       
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Not applicable.

                                                                                      
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

                                                                                      
  Not applicable.

                                                                                      
Appeals:

                                                                                      
  Not applicable.

                                                                                      
Renewals:

                                                                                      
  Not applicable.

Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  There is no statutory formula or matching requirements for this program.            
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Reports:                                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Audits:                                                                               
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Records:                                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Account Identification:                                                               
  15-0128-0-1-752.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Salaries and Expenses) FY 07 $11,810,000; FY 08 est $11,912,000; and FY 09



546                                                                             11-08

  est $15,944,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Not applicable.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  The Civil Rights Division's Voting Section vigorously enforces the Voting
  Rights Act ("VRA") and other laws that protect the right to vote. Primary
  enforcement efforts in FY 2007 were (1) monitoring of elections to ensure
  compliance with federal voting rights laws; (2) litigation to enforce federal
  voting rights laws; (3) the administrative review of voting changes pursuant to
  Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act; (4) enforcement responsibility for Title III of
  the Help America Vote Act ("HAVA"); and (5) enforcement of the Uniformed
  and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act ("UOCAVA") and (6) enforcement
  of the National Voter Registration Act (NVRA). During the past few years, the
  Civil Rights Division has significantly increased its election monitoring
  activities, particularly in the use of Departmental staff in those areas of the
  country where the Attorney General cannot send federal observers because the
  jurisdictions are not subject to the special provisions of the Voting Rights Act.
  In FY 2007, the Voting Section coordinated and monitored elections in 91
  jurisdictions located in 24 different states. Overall, the Department covered 107
  elections with 479 Department personnel and the assignment of 875 federal
  observers. The Division continues to establish new landmarks in protecting the
  voting rights of individuals with limited English proficiency. Section 203 of the
  Voting Rights Act requires certain jurisdictions to provide bilingual voting
  materials and assistance to American Indians, Asian Americans, Alaskan
  Natives, and/or persons of Spanish heritage. In FY 2007, lawsuits included
  actions to protect persons of Spanish heritage in the City of Philadelphia, PA;
  Galveston County , City of Earth, Littlefield ISD, Post ISD, Seagraves ISD, and
  Smyer ISD , TX , and Kane County , IL , and protection for Korean Americans
  in the City of Walnut , CA. Meanwhile, the Division continued to enforce the
  provisions of Section 2 of the Voting Rights Act, which provides that the right
  to vote may not be denied or abridged on account of race or color, or because of
  membership in a language minority group. In the Fiscal Year, the Division filed
  a lawsuit against the Village of Port Chester, NY and successfully resolved
  lawsuits against Osceola County , FL , Noxubee County , MS , and the City of
  Euclid, OH. The Division also continued its enforcement of the NVRA, a law
  designed to expand registration opportunities for all citizens and to ensure
  proper maintenance of voter registration lists. Two cases remain pending against
  the State of New York for failure to provide adequate voter registration
  opportunities to voters, including public assistance agencies and at public
  college offices that provide services to persons with disabilities. The Division
  also brought a NVRA and HAVA lawsuits against the States of New Jersey
  regarding the State's list maintenance practices which was successfully resolved
  and brought HAVA and NVRA claims against Cibola County , NM which were
  also resolved. The Division continues to be active in enforcing the Help America
  Vote Act of 2002 (HAVA). On January 1, 2006, requirements for voting system
  standards and statewide voter registration databases took effect. The Division is
  working to ensure that states comply with the new requirements. During FY
  2007, with new provisions under the Help America Vote Act taking effect, the
  Division received 5,817 submissions of voting changes for administrative review
  under Section 5 of the VRA; 44 of these were redistricting plans. The Division
  is working to ensure that states promptly comply with the new requirements. In
  2006, the Division was able to enter into a settlement agreement with the state of
  California. Negotiations are pending with several other states. During FY 2006,
  with new provisions under the Help America Vote Act taking effect, theDivision
  received 7,216 submissions of voting changes for administrative review under
  Section
  5of the VRA; 75 of these were redistricting plans.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  28 CFR 0.50; "Voting Rights Act of 1965, A Citizens Guide to Understanding
  the Voting Rights Act of 1965," (a copy of this pamphlet can be purchased from
  the Commission on Civil Rights-Clearinghouse Publication No. 84); 28 CFR 51;
  45 CFR 801; 28 CFR 55.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Justice, Civil Rights Division, Voting Section, Washington, DC
  20530. Telephone: (202) 307-3143, (800) 253-3931. Contact: Office of Public
  Affairs, Department of Justice. Telephone: (Voice) (202) 514-2007; (TDD)
  (202) 514-1888.
Web Site Address:
  www.usdoj.gov/crt/voting/index.htm .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  16.200, Community Relations Service; 29.001, Clearinghouse Services, Civil
  Rights Discrimination Complaints; 93.001, Civil Rights and Privacy Rule
  Compliance Activities.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
