16.105 CIVIL RIGHTS OF INSTITUTIONALIZED PERSONS                                     
                                                                                     
  (Equal Enjoyment of Rights in Public Facilities; Protection of                     
  Rights to Reproductive Health Services)                                            
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  CIVIL RIGHTS DIVISION, DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE                                       
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Civil Rights of Institutionalized Persons Act, Public Law 96-247, 42 U.S.C.        
  1997; Religious Land Use and Institutionalized Persons Act of 2000, 42 U.S.C.      
  2000cc-1; Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, Title III; Freedom of Access to    
  Clinic Entrances Act, 18 U.S.C 248; Violent Crime Control and Law                  
  Enforcement Act of 1994, Section 210401, 42 U.S.C. 14141; Omnibus Crime            
  Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, 42 U.S.C. 3789d.                             
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To initiate actions for redress in cases involving deprivations of rights of       
  institutionalized persons secured and protected by the Constitution or laws of the 
  United States. To prevent any government from imposing a substantial burden        
  on the religious exercise of a person residing in or confined to a publicly        
  operated institution. To provide equal utilization of any public facility owned or 
  operated by any State or subdivision thereof, without regard to race, religion, or 
  national origin. To obtain civil relief for certain violent, threatening,          
  obstructive, and destructive conduct intended to injure, intimidate, or interfere  
  with persons seeking to obtain or provide reproductive health services, or         
  interfere with the First Amendment right of religious freedom, or destroy the      
  property of a place of religious worship. To seek relief to redress a pattern or   
  practice of conduct by law enforcement officers that deprives citizens of the      
  United States of their constitutional rights.                                      
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Provision of Specialized Services.                                                 
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  The Attorney General is authorized to initiate or intervene in actions for         
  equitable relief on behalf of institutionalized persons residing in pubic          
  institutions wherein a pattern or practice of egregious or flagrant conditions     
  exists. Such institutions include: facilities for persons who are mentally ill or  
  mentally retarded, nursing homes, prisons, jails, and juvenile detention and       
  correctional facilities. The Attorney General may bring suit to protect the rights 
  of persons in publicly operated institutions to be allowed to exercise their       
  religion without substantial burdens being imposed by the public entity            
  operating the institution. The Attorney General may also bring suit and request    
  injunctive relief prohibiting discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion,
  and national origin in the operation of public facilities when he/she "has         
  reasonable cause to believe" that a State of political subdivision in engaged in   
  such discrimination. The Attorney General is authorized to investigate and,        
  where appropriate, initiate actions for relief from certain violent, threatening,  
  obstructive, and destructive actions intended to injure, intimidate, or interfere  
  with persons seeking reproductive health services, or deny religious freedom, or   
  destruction of property at places of religious worship. The Attorney General is    
  authorized to investigate patterns or practices of conduct by law enforcement      
  officials which deprive U.S. citizens of their constitutional rights, and may      
  initiate civil actions for relief from such constitutional deprivations.           
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Any person notifying the Attorney General of a pattern on violations of Federal    
  rights of persons confined in a public institution in any State, territory, or     
  Commonwealth of the United States. Any person notifying the Attorney General       
  of violations of the Freedom of Access to Clinic Entrances Act (FACE). Any         
  person notifying the Attorney General of pattern or practice conduct by law        
  enforcement officers which deprive citizens of the U.S. of their constitutional    
  rights under Section 14141.                                                        
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Institutionalized persons confined in public facilities such as prisons, jails,    
  mental health and mental retardation facilities, nursing homes, and juvenile       
  correctional facilities where there is a pattern of unlawful conditions. Any       
  persons in a publicly operated institution not allowed to exercise their religion  
  because of substantial burdens imposed by the public entity operating the          
  institution. Any persons who have been denied access to or the ability to          
  provide clinic reproductive health services, or has been denied religious          
  freedom, or suffered the destruction of property at a place of religious worship.  
  Any persons who, as a part of a pattern or practice of conduct by law              
  enforcement officers, have been deprived of their constitutional rights.           
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                     
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Contact the Department of Justice, Civil Rights Divisions, Special Litigation      
  Section, Washington, DC 20530 or any United States Attorney's Office.              
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Deadlines:                                                                           


                                                                                11-08
  Not applicable.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Not applicable.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Not applicable.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Not applicable.
Reports:
  Not applicable.
Audits:
  Not applicable.
Records:
  Not applicable.
Account Identification:
  15-0128-0-1-752.
Obligations:
  (Salaries and Expenses) FY 07 est $12,656,000; FY 08 est $12,765,000; and FY
  09 est 13,426,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Not applicable.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Civil Rights of Institutionalized Persons Act (CRIPA): covers public institutions,
  including prisons, jails, juvenile justice facilities, mental retardation facilities,
  psychiatric hospitals and nursing homes. From May 1980, when CRIPA was
  enacted, through May 2008, the Division investigated conditions in over 453
  nursing homes, mental health facilities, centers for persons with developmental
  disabilities, residential schools for children with disabilities, jails, prisons, and
  juvenile justice facilities. Presently, the Section has open CRIPA investigations
  and cases involving approximately 200 facilities. Our work regarding over one
  third of those facilities is in the investigative stage, including 55 new
  investigations of 88 facilities initiated since January 2004. The Section also has
  undertaken a nursing home initiative to address constitutional violations in
  publicly operated nursing homes, and a juvenile justice initiative to protect the
  federal rights youth confined to juvenile justice facilities. From FY 1998 to date,
  we have settled over 95 percent of our CRIPA cases. Since FY 2003 alone, the
  Section conducted over 711 on-site inspections of institutions. In addition, we
  have resolved many investigations pre-suit because jurisdictions voluntarily
  corrected the identified problems. In FY 2007 and the three-quarters of FY
  2008, CRT conducted over 200 investigatory and compliance tours, and handled
  CRIPA matters and cases involving over 205 facilities in 32 States, the District
  of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands,
  the Territories of Guam and the Virgin Islands. SPL also continued its
  investigations of 105 facilities, and monitored the implementation of consent
  decrees, settlement agreements, memoranda of understanding, and court orders
  involving over 100 facilities. During FY 2007-08, SPL opened 25 new
  investigations of 53 facilities, including a country-wide investigation involving
  19 juvenile facilities, and obtained ten settlement agreements and issued 18
  findings letters. Moreover, the Section continues to participate in a pre-CRIPA
  case regarding persons with developmental disabilities residing in approximately
  200 community-based facilities in the District of Columbia. Police Misconduct:
  The Section continues to play a major role in promoting law enforcement
  management policies and practices that foster police integrity through its
  outreach, technical assistance and enforcement efforts under 42 U.S.C. 14141
  and the Safe Streets Act. The Section has open investigations of 10 law
  enforcement agencies. The subject matter of the investigations usually includes
  allegations of a pattern or practice of excessive force or discriminatory policing
  tied to management deficiencies. The investigations are complex, usually
  requiring the review of voluminous records, extensive interviews, creation and
  analysis of sophisticated databases, and the use of police practices and other
  consultants. Investigations also include provision of technical assistance through
  the continuing identification of deficient policies and management practices
  and, in some instances, direct technical assistance presentations to agency
  personnel by our police practices consultants. In six of our seven lawsuits
  alleging a pattern or practice of police misconduct, consent decrees were
  negotiated and were lodged simultaneously with our complaints; the seventh
  lawsuit was ultimately resolved by an out of court settlement. In addition, eight
  other investigations have resulted in out-of-court settlements including police
  departments in the District of Columbia, Prince George's County, MD, Detroit,
  MI, and Villa Rica, GA. The settlements require the adoption and
  implementation of policies and procedures designed to prevent excessive force,
  improper searches and seizures, and other misconduct. Finally, during FY 2007
  and into FY 2008, we focused our resources onvigorously monitoring the
  enforcement of its eight existing settlement agreements to ensure timely,
  compliance with the terms of those agreements. As a result, we successfully and
  timely terminated our police reform settlements with Mt. Prospect, Illinois
  (January 2007); Prince George's County, MD (March 2007), and Cincinnati, OH
                                                                                     547
