  (April 2007), and Cleveland, OH (March 2008). We also expect to successfully         
  conclude our settlement with the District of Columbia's Metropolitan Police          
  Department in June 2008.                                                             
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  28 C.F.R. 0.50, Summary of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 45 C.F.R. Part 84.          
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  None.                                                                                
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Department of Justice, Civil Rights Division, Special Litigation Section,            
  Washington, DC 20530. Telephone: (202) 514-6255. Contact: Office of Public           
  Affairs. Telephone: (Voice) (202) 514-2007; (TDD) (202) 514-1888.                    
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.usdoj.gov/crt/split/index.html.                                           
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  29.001, Clearinghouse Services, Civil Rights Discrimination Complaints;              
  93.613, President's Committee for People with Intellectual Disabilities (PCPID).     
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  Not applicable.                                                                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  Not applicable.                                                                      
                                                                                       
                                                                                       
16.108 AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT                                                 
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM                                                           
      (ADA)                                                                            
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  CIVIL RIGHTS DIVISION, DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE                                         
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Americans with Disabilities Act, Public Law 101-336, Section 506.                    
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To ensure that public accommodations and commercial facilities and State and         
  local governments learn of the requirements of Titles II and III of the Americans    
  with Disabilities Act (ADA) and acquire the knowledge needed to comply               
  voluntarily with these requirements.                                                 
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Dissemination of Technical Information; Training; Investigation of Complaints;       
  Project Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Grants limited to the provision of technical assistance and educational activities   
  that have a wide impact, including the development and dissemination of              
  materials, the conduct of seminars, conferences, and training, and the provision     
  of technical assistance on a state, regional or national basis depending on the      
  funding priorities announced each year. Because the grant program is                 
  educational in nature, the Department does not fund projects to research or          
  resolve issues that are outside the scope of the Department's current ADA            
  regulations and court interpretations. The program is not intended to fund or        
  support site- specific compliance implementation (e.g., funding to make specific     
  facilities more accessible), or to fund or support inspections, reviews, or tests to 
  determine whether an entity is meeting its compliance obligations. The program       
  does not provide funding to help people with disabilities become more                
  productive or acquire services they need because of their disability.                
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Nonprofit organizations, including trade and professional associations or their      
  subsidiaries, organizations representing State and local governments or their        
  employees, other organizations representing entities covered by the ADA, State       
  and local governments agencies, national and State-based organizations               
  representing persons with disabilities, and individuals.                             
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  The target audiences of funded grants will include State and local governments,      
  businesses and nonprofit organizations that operate public accommodations and        
  commercial facilities, and individuals who want information about their rights or    
  responsibilities under the ADA.                                                      
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                       
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  When funds are available, a notice of solicitation of grant applications is          
  published in Federal Register. Applications are typically submitted in 45 to 60      
  days prior to award. Solicitation requires that the following forms be submitted     
  with the application: SF 424 and 424A Application for Federal Assistance;            
  Office of Justice Programs (OJP) Form 4000-3 (attached to SF 424); OJP Form          
  4061/6 (3-91); certifications regarding lobbying, debarment, suspension, and         
  other responsibility matters; and Drug-Free Workplace Requirement; OJP Form          
  7120/1 (1/85), Accounting System and Financial Capability Questionnaire.             
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  Final award decisions are made by the Assistant Attorney General, Civil Rights       
  Division. Civil Rights Division Program personnel receive and review proposals       
  and make recommendations to the Assistant Attorney General. All grants are           


548                                                                              11-08

  made directly to applicants. No State Plan required.
Deadlines:
  Variable. Announced in the solicitation published in the Federal Register.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  The range is 60-120 days.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Not applicable.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Normally 12 months. Release by Letter of Credit and as required.
Reports:
  Quarterly financial (SF 269A (Rev. 4/88)) and program (OJP 4587/1 (Rev.
  2/90)) reports.
Audits:
  Grants may be audited by the Office of Justice Programs using standard audit
  procedure mandated by GAO.
Records:
  Organization financial audits for each calendar year in which grant was
  effective.
Account Identification:
  15-0128-0-1-752.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 est not available; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not
  available. (Salaries and Expenses) FY 07 $17,400,000; FY 08 est $17,550,000;
  and FY 09 est $18,467,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Not available.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY 2007, The Department entered into comprehensive settlement agreements
  with Mandalay Corporation and with Circus Circus Mississippi, Inc., resolving
  investigations into the accessibility of the Mandalay Bay Casino Resort in Las
  Vegas and the Gold Strike Casino Resort in Tunica Resorts, Mississippi. Both
  resorts, subsidiaries of MGM Mirage, were constructed after the ADA Standards
  for Accessible Design went into effect. Under the agreements, each casino resort
  has agreed to ensure that its facility complies with the new construction
  standards of the ADA, ensuring that guests and visitors with disabilities have
  access to a total of four hotels, more than 6,500 guest rooms and suites, 36
  restaurants and bars, 3 theaters, more than 30 specialty shops, 3 convention
  centers, an events center seating up to 12,000 people, and other amenities. The
  Department entered into a settlement agreement with Doctor Associates Inc.
  (DAI), the privately held corporation that franchises more than 20,000 Subway
  sandwich shops throughout the United States. Because the individual Subway
  shops are franchisees, the agreement recognizes that DAI will facilitate the
  efforts to ensure compliance while the individual Subway shops will be
  responsible for removing barriers to access at more than 20,000 Subway shops
  nationwide. The U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania
  approved an agreement resolving a lawsuit against Philadelphia for violating the
  ADA in providing emergency medical care. The Department intervened in a
  lawsuit filed by an individual alleging that paramedics employed by the city
  refused to provide him with appropriate medical care upon learning of his HIV
  status. Under the agreement, Philadelphia will provide paramedics employed by
  the city with ongoing training on nondiscriminatory treatment of patients with
  infectious diseases, specifically HIV/AIDS. The city also agreed to pay $50,000
  in damages to the plaintiff. Much of the Department's enforcement effort
  focuses on resolution without litigation or formal agreements. For example,
  under a contract the Department refers complaints to professional mediators who
  have been trained in the legal requirements of the ADA. This has resulted in
  many mediated agreements. The Department's successful enforcement and
  educational efforts are detailed in quarterly reports published by the Section and
  available online. The Technical Assistance Program, mandated under Section
  506 of the ADA, provides answers to questions and free publications to
  businesses, state and local governments, people with disabilities, and the general
  public. In FY 2007, more than 47,000 calls to the ADA Information Line were
  answered by ADA Specialists who assisted callers in applying the ADA to their
  own unique situations. The Section develops and disseminates free ADA
  publications, provides training and information at meetings nationwide, and
  carries out a variety of outreach and educational initiatives to reach audiences
  affected by the ADA. The Section's technical assistance publications range from
  detailed technical assistance manuals to basic Question-and-Answer booklets
  and illustrated guides addressing specific topics. Publications can be obtained 24
  hours a day through a free fax-on-demand service or through the Section's ADA
  Website. This web site, one of the top five in the Department, received almost 57
  million visits to its pages and graphics in FY 2007. The Section also chairs an
  ADA Technical Assistance Coordinating Committee and works with other
  agencies to coordinate technical assistance activities nationwide. In FY 2007,
  continued development of Expanding Your Market, a new series of concise,
  reproducible documents offering resources for businesses working to improve
