  Each statute has elements of the offense that must be met in order for there to be 
  Federal jurisdiction. Furthermore, there must be evidence to prove beyond a        
  reasonable doubt that a violation occurred. Official misconduct cases: (1) the     
  defendant must have been acting under color of the law, that is, while using or    
  misusing power possessed by reason of the law (Private citizens jointly engaged    
  with State officials, who are themselves acting under color of the law, in         
  prohibited activity, are acting under color of law for purposes of Section 242.);  
  (2) the conduct of the defendant must have deprived the victim of some right       
  secured or protected by the Constitution or laws of the United States; and (3)     
  there must have been an intent on the part of the defendant willfully to subject   
  the victim to the deprivation of the right described above. Racial violence cases: 
  (1) the defendant must have acted with force or the threat of force; (2) the       
  defendant must have injured, intimidated, or interfered with or attempted to       
  injure, intimidate or interfere with the victim; (3) the defendant must have acted 
  because of the victim's race, color, religion or national origin and because the   
  victim was participating or engaged in a federally protected activity (as          
  enumerated in 18 U.S.C. 245 (b)(2)(A) through (F)) and 42 U.S.C. 3631; and (4)     
  finally, the defendant must have acted willfully. Human trafficking/ involuntary   
  servitude cases: (1) a person must be made to work against his will by the         
  defendant; (2) the period of involuntary servitude must be for a "term"; (3) the   
  defendant must have caused the involuntary servitude by his acts; and (4) the      
  defendant must have intended to cause involuntary service by his acts. Forced      
  labor: (1) defendant did, or attempted to, provide or obtain the labor or services 
  of a person, (2) defendants used either threats of serious harm to, or physical    
  restraint against, that person or another person; used a scheme, plan, or pattern  
  intended to cause the person to believe that non-performance would result in       
  serious harm to, or physical restraint against, that person or another person; or  
  abused or threatened abuse of the law or legal process, and (3) defendant acted    
  knowingly. Reproductive health clinic access cases: (1) facility providing         
  reproductive health services; (2) defendant used force, threat of force, or        
  physical obstruction; (3) defendant intended or attempted to injure, intimidate,   
  or interfere with; and (4) someone providing or obtaining reproductive health      
  services.                                                                          
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
16.110 EDUCATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF THE                                              
ANTIDISCRIMINATION PROVISION OF THE                                                  
IMMIGRATION AND NATIONALITY ACT                                                      
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  OFFICE OF SPECIAL COUNSEL FOR IMMIGRATION RELATED UNFAIR                           
  EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES, CIVIL RIGHTS DIVISION, DEPARTMENT                            
  OF JUSTICE                                                                         
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Immigration and Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C. Section 1324b.                           
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To educate employers and workers about their rights and responsibilities under     
  the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA), which prohibits employment              
  discrimination based on citizenship status and national origin, and unfair         
  documentary practices with respect to verification of employment eligibility.      
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants; Provision of Specialized Services; Investigation of Complaints.    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  The anti-discrimination provisions of the INA prohibit employment                  
  discrimination based upon national origin and citizenship status against U.S.      
  citizens and other legally authorized workers with respect to hiring, firing, and  
  recruitment or referral for a fee, and unfair documentary practices during         
  verification of employment eligibility. The INA also prohibits retaliation for the 
  purpose of interfering with any right or privilege secured by the anti-            
  discrimination provisions, or because an individual has participated in a          
  proceeding to enforce those provisions. The Office of Special Counsel for          
  Immigration-Related Unfair Employment Practices (OSC) was created by               
  Congress to enforce these provisions, and to educate the public about its          
  responsibilities and rights under the law. The goal of OSC's grant program is to   
  educate workers and employers about the anti-discrimination provisions of the      
  INA in order to reduce incidents of employment discrimination. Grants are open     
  to all applicants including labor and immigrant organizations, small and large     
  businesses and associations, employer groups and associations, public service or   
  community-based organizations, faith-based organizations and state and local       
  government agencies. The INA's prohibition against citizenship status              
  discrimination applies to employers with more than three employees, and covers:    
  (1) U.S. citizens and nationals; (2) lawful permanent residents; (3) temporary     
  residents under the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, including          
  Special Agricultural Worker program (SAW) and Replenishment Agricultural           
  Worker program (RAW); (4) refugees and (5) asylees. The INA's prohibition          
  against national origin discrimination applies to employers with four to 14        
  employees and covers U.S. citizens, and all individuals with work authorization.   
  Employers with 15 or more employees are subject to Title VII of the Civil Rights   
  Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. 2000e, et seq., Which also prohibits discrimination on      
  the basis of national origin, and is enforced by the U.S. Equal Employment         




550                                                                            11-08

  Opportunity Commission (EEOC). Charges incorrectly filed with OSC are
  automatically referred to the EEOC and vice versa. The INA's prohibition
  against unfair documentary practices applies to employers with more than three
  employees, and protects U.S. citizens and all individuals with work
  authorization.
Applicant Eligibility:
  The OSC welcomes grant proposals from organizations such as local, regional,
  and national ethnic and immigrant rights advocacy organizations, labor
  organizations, trade associations, industry groups, professional organizations,
  state and local government agencies, employer organizations and associations,
  and others, including for-profit entities, that provide information services to
  potential victims of discrimination and/or employers.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  The educational efforts under the grant should be cost effective and directed to
  (1) work-authorized non-citizens (since this group is especially vulnerable to
  employment discrimination); (2) citizens who are most likely to become victims
  of prohibited employment discrimination under the INA; and/or (3) employers,
  especially small businesses.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Not applicable.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  The applicant must submit the following forms electronically through
  www.grants.gov: Application for Federal Assistance (SF 424); Disclosure Form
  to Report Lobbying (SF LLL), and Assurances (DOJ/OJP Form 4000/3). In
  addition, the application package must include an abstract, a program narrative
  not to exceed 15 pages, a proposed budget, and resumes of professional staff
  proposed in the budget.
Award Procedure:
  Federal officials will review and rate grant applications according to standards
  published in the announcement of availability of funds posted on
  www.grants.gov. Final award decisions are made by the Special Counsel for
  Immigration-Related Unfair Employment Practices, or in the absence of the
  Special Counsel, by the Assistant Attorney General for Civil Rights.
Deadlines:
  Contact the Office of Special Counsel listed below.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  4 to 5 months.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirement.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  12 months. Funds are released quarterly.
Reports:
  Quarterly Financial and Categorical Assistance Project Reports are required.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, (Revised, June
  24, 1997), ("Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit
  Organizations,") nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $300,000
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $300,000 a
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for the year,
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Any documents related to the items of expenses under the grant.
Account Identification:
  15-0128-0-1-752.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $725,000; FY 08 est $710,500; and FY 09 est $750,000.
  (Salaries and Expenses) FY 07 $4,672,000; FY 08 est $4,693,000,; and FY 09
  est $4,832,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  For grants approved in FY 07, the range was $40,000 to $90,000, average
  $65,909 ($725,000/11). For FY 08 the grant program announced range is
  $35,000 to $100,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In fiscal year 2007, the Office of Special Counsel continued to conduct outreach
  activities, including providing grant funds to community-based and nonprofit
  organizations and government entities to educate employers, employees,
  immigrant service providers and the general public about employer and
  immigrant rights and responsibilities under the anti-discrimination provision.
  OSC staff members made numerous educational presentations across the
  country, which included presentations sponsored by the U.S. Equal Employment
  Opportunity Commission, OSC grantees, state and local fair employment
  practices agencies, unions, and employer and worker organizations. Directly and
  through its grantees, OSC participated in 843 outreach presentations during the
