  fiscal year. In addition, the OSC maintained its 50 memoranda of understanding    
  (MOUs) with state and local jurisdictions to promote the protection of            
  immigrant worker rights. During the fiscal year, OSC initiated 165 charges of     
  discrimination and independent investigations, ultimately resolving 89 matters    
  through dismissal, settlement or letters of resolution. In addition, OSC received 
  over 29,797 calls on its worker and employer hotlines, and was able on many       
  occasions to save the jobs of authorized workers or assist employers in           
  modifying their employment eligibility verification procedures to comply with     
  the anti-discrimination provision of the Immigration and Nationality Act.         
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  8 U.S.C. 1324b.                                                                   
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  None.                                                                             
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Department of Justice, Civil Rights Division-NYA, Office of Special Counsel       
  for Immigration-Related Unfair Employment Practices, 950 Pennsylvania Ave.,       
  N.W., Washington, DC 20530. Telephone: (voice) (202) 616-5594, (TDD) (202)        
  616-5525; toll-free: (voice) (1-800) 255-7688, (TDD) 1-800- 237-2515.             
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  http://www.usdoj.gov/crt/osc/index.html.                                          
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  None.                                                                             
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  Colorado Legal Services of Denver, CO; Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles,       
  Los Angeles, CA; Catholic Charities of Dallas, Dallas, TX; National               
  Immigration Law Center (NILC) of Los Angeles, CA; Asian Pacific American          
  Legal Center of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA; Catholic Charities of the   
  Diocese of Palm Beach, W. Palm Beach, FL; Legal Services of South Central         
  Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, Legal Aid of Nebraska, Omaha, NE; Nachman &              
  Associates, Ridgewood, NJ; New York City Human Rights Commission, New             
  York, NY; and The Association of Farmworker Opportunity Programs of               
  Washington, D. C.                                                                 
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                   
  The standards for making grant awards are published in the solicitation posted    
  on www.grants.gov (see Award Procedure). Included among them are: 1) sound        
  program design and cost-effective strategies for educating the intended           
  population, including evidence of in-depth knowledge of the goals and             
  objectives of the project, and the applicant's qualifications to reach effectively
  the intended audience(s); 2) capability of the applicant to define the intended   
  audience, reach it, and implement the public education and evaluation             
  components of the campaign; 3) staff capability and previous experience in        
  having successfully carried out programs or work of a similar nature.             
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
16.200 COMMUNITY RELATIONS SERVICE                                                  
   (CRS)                                                                            
                                                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     
  COMMUNITY RELATIONS SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE                                
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                      
  Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, Title X, Public Law 88-352, 42 U.S.C.       
  2000g-1-2000g-2.                                                                  
OBJECTIVES:                                                                         
  To provide free Federal conciliation and mediation services to communities in     
  preventing and resolving community tensions, conflicts, and civil disorders       
  arising from actions, policies, and practices that are perceived to be based on   
  race, ethnicity, or national origin. No funds are granted to outside organizations
  to provide these services.                                                        
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                
  Provision of Specialized Services.                                                
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                          
  The Community Relations Service (CRS) employs conciliation, mediation,            
  technical assistance, and training techniques to provide free services to         
  communities in preventing, reducing, and resolving racial and ethnic conflicts.   
  Through conciliation, CRS facilitates communication among disputing parties.      
  Through mediation, CRS intervenes to promote the settlement of disputes           
  through the terms of an oral or written agreement between the disputing parties.  
  Through technical assistance, CRS provides subject matter expertise to            
  communities by providing such services as: participating in and facilitating      
  community meetings and task forces; and sponsoring, cosponsoring, or making       
  presentations at conferences and forums. CRS conducts training in such areas      
  as community policing, police/community relations, response to hate crimes, and   
  conflict resolution techniques (e.g., law enforcement mediation). CRS also        
  develops resource materials and prepares articles for publication on preventing   
  and resolving racial and ethnic conflicts in communities.                         
Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  CRS provides services without cost assistance to representatives of groups or     
  communities or Federal, State or local government agencies that seek to resolve,  
  reduce or prevent conflicts related to race, ethnicity, or national origin. CRS   
  does not provide grants to communities for conciliation and mediation             
                                                                                    
                                                                               11-08
  assistance programs.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  CRS does not provide grants to communities, but beneficiaries may include any
  group, community, or Federal, State or local government agency that experiences
  tensions involving race, ethnicity, or national origin.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Parties interested in requesting free conciliation and mediation service may
  write, phone, or contact in person, headquarters or regional offices. Please see
  below for contact information. No standard form is used. CRS does not provide
  grant funds to purchase assistance or to fund community programs.
Award Procedure:
  Assistance is provided by direct response from an appropriate agency official to
  the applicant in the form of conflict prevention and resolution services. CRS
  will provide on-site services in major racial or ethnic crisis situations within 24
  hours from the time when your community notifies CRS or CRS becomes aware
  of the crisis. In non-crisis situations, CRS will contact you within three days of
  when your community notifies CRS or CRS becomes aware of the situation to
  discuss your request for CRS services.
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  In major racial or ethnic crisis situations, on-site services are provided within 24
  hours of notifying CRS. In non-crisis situations, CRS will contact the requestor
  within 3 days to discuss the request. Since CRS has only a limited number of
  conciliators to service the entire country, CRS cannot guarantee service delivery.
   CRS will, however, make every effort to service every request.
Appeals:
  Applicant can request assistance again. If the agency is not authorized to provide
  a response, the applicant will be referred to an appropriate agency or resource for
  assistance.
Renewals:
  Each request for service is given a separate response by CRS.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  CRS provides continuous service until the conflict is resolved or CRS no longer
  has jurisdiction under 42 U.S.C. 2000g-1.
Reports:
  None.
Audits:
  None.
Records:
  None.
Account Identification:
  15-0500-0-1-752.
Obligations:
  (Salaries and expenses) FY 07 est $10,229,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY
  09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  No financial assistance is provided by CRS. Rather, CRS staff provides
  appropriate services at no cost to the requestor.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Each year, CRS is called upon to resolve or prevent racial and ethnic community
  conflicts throughout the country. CRS usually has an active case load of
  approximately 1,200 cases each year. Most of CRS' conflict prevention services
  focused on reducing racial and ethnic tensions between law enforcement and
  communities across the U.S., preventing racial and ethnic violence in public
  schools, and resolving community tensions associated with hate crimes.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  There are no regulations or guidelines for requesting assistance from CRS,
  except as noted above. Pamphlets and other materials developed by CRS for use
  by communities include: "Principles of Good Policing: Avoiding Violence
  Between Police and Citizens"; "Responding to Hate Crimes and Bias-Motivated
  Incidents on College/University Campuses"; "Guidelines for Effective Human
  Relations Commissions"; "Police Use of Excessive Force: A Conciliation
  Handbook for the Police and the Community"; "Managing Major Public Events:
  A Planning Guide for Municipal Officials, Law Enforcement, Community
  Leaders, Organizers, and Promoters"; "Avoiding Racial Conflict: Guide for
  Municipalities." These publications can be found on CRS' website at
  http://www.usdoj.gov/crs.
Regional or Local Office:
  For a list of regional and local offices, please either visit
  http://www.usdoj.gov/crs or call (202) 305-2935.
Headquarters Office:
  For general information, Community Relations Service, Department of Justice,
  Suite 6000, 600 E St. NW., Washington, DC 20530. Telephone: (202) 305-
  2935. Use the same number for FTS.
                                                                                    551
