Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.usdoj.gov/crs .                                                          
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Not applicable.                                                                     
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Not applicable. CRS does not fund projects. Rather, its staff provide services      
  directly to the public.                                                             
                                                                                      
16.202 PRISONER REENTRY INITIATIVE                                                    
                                                                                      
DEMONSTRATION (OFFENDER REENTRY)

                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS, BUREAU OF JUSTICE ASSISTANCE,                           
  DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE                                                               
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  H.R. 5548, as approved under H.R. 4577, the Consolidated Appropriations Act         
  of 2001, 42 U.S.C. 3793w, Public Law No. 90-351, Title I, Part FF.                  
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  The Offender Reentry Initiative (Reentry Grant Program) is a combined federal       
  effort to assist jurisdictions in facing the challenges presented by the return of  
  offenders from prison to the community. The goal is to support the effective        
  delivery of pre-release assessments and services, and to develop transition plans   
  in collaboration with other justice and community-based agencies and providers,     
  for supervised and non-supervised non-violent offenders. The current initiative     
  addresses the continuing problem of offenders entering the community after          
  incarceration with little or no surveillance, accountability, or resource           
  investment.                                                                         
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants (Discretionary).                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  The Reentry Initiative encourages the development of model reentry programs         
  that begin in correctional institutions and continue through an offender's          
  transition (release) to and stabilization in the community. These programs          
  provide for individual reentry plans that address issues confronting offenders as   
  they return to their communities. The initiative encompasses three phases and is    
  implemented through appropriate programs. Phase 1-Protect and Prepare:              
  Institution-Based Programs, Phase 2-Control and Restore: Community-Based            
  Transition Programs Phase 3-Sustain and Support: Community-Based Long-              
  Term Support Programs.                                                              
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  An applicant must select a lead agency responsible for the operational aspects of   
  the grant. The applicant must also establish a multidisciplinary collaborative      
  partnership, which includes members of faith-based and/or community                 
  organizations; e.g., State and local corrections agencies, the State and local      
  mental health and substance abuse agencies, and the State and local Workforce       
  Investment Boards (WIB). The partnership must select the lead agency to serve       
  as the applicant and the fiscal agent or grantee. If the lead agency designates     
  another to serve as fiscal agent, the lead will remain as grantee with ultimate     
  responsibility for the grant. The lead agency and/or fiscal agent must be a State   
  or tribal agency's unit of government. Federally Recognized Indian Tribes must      
  establish a partnership that includes (but is not limited to) entities or agencies  
  that address corrections, criminal justice, law enforcement, employment             
  services, substance abuse, and mental health. Tribes may involve State level        
  agencies as their key partners, although this is not a requirement. Eligibility is  
  limited to jurisdictions in which grants were awarded to community- and faith-      
  based organizations through the U.S. Department of Labor's FY 2005 Prisoner         
                                                                                      
  Reentry Initiative (See www.dol.gov/opa/media/press/eta/eta20052123list.htm).

                                                                                      
  State agencies are encouraged to partner with local and regional jails when

                                                                                      
  submitting applications, or to serve as a pass-through for funding. All applicants

                                                                                      
  must coordinate applications with their community- and faith-based partners.

                                                                                      
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  State, units of local government, and federally recognized tribes.

                                                                                      
Credentials/Documentation:

                                                                                      
  The applicant must submit a completed Application for Federal Assistance

                                                                                      
  (Standard Form 424), including signed assurances that it will comply with

                                                                                      
  statutory and administrative requirements. The applicant is also required to

                                                                                      
  submit a description that includes the goals of the program, the implementation

                                                                                      
  process, timetable for implementation, how the State will coordinate substance      
  abuse treatment activities at the State and local levels, and the State's law or    
  policy requiring substance abuse testing of individuals in correctional residential 
  substance abuse treatment programs.                                                 
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  A considerable amount of preapplication coordination is required amongst the

  required and suggested stakeholders. For State applicants, this program is

  eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal        
  Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the     
  single point of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the 
  State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected



552                                                                             11-08

  the program for review. The Offender Reentry Program (Prisoner Reentry
  Initiative (PRI)) strengthens urban communities characterized by large numbers
  of returning, nonviolent prisoners. With the support of several federal agencies,
  PRI is designed to reduce recidivism by helping returning inmates find work and
  access other critical services in their communities.
Application Procedure:
  All competitive grant applications must be submitted electronically at:
  http://www.grants.gov/.
Award Procedure:
  All applications will be peer reviewed. The BJA Director will then make award
  recommendations to OJP's Assistant Attorney General, who will make a final
  determination.
Deadlines:
  See solicitation for deadline. Faxed or mailed applications or supplemental
  materials will not be accepted.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Applications will generally be approved or denied within 120 days of receipt of a
  completed application.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Subject to congressional appropriations.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  A minimum 25 percent match is required for PRI; federal funding for this
  project may not exceed 75 percent of the total project costs. Contributions may
  be cash, in-kind services, or a combination of both.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Up to 20 awards of $450,000 will be made under the PRI program depending on
  the availability of funding. The minimum project period is 24 months; the
  maximum project period is 36 months.
Reports:
  Recipients are required to submit quarterly Financial Reports, and semi-annual
  Progress Reports.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  24, 1997), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $300,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $300,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133. Performance Measures: To assist in fulfilling the
  Departments responsibilities under the Government Performance and Results
  Act (GPRA), P.L. 103-62, applicants who receive funding under this solicitation
  must provide data that measures the results of their work.
Records:
  In accordance with the requirement set forth in 28 CFR Parts 66 and 70,
  grantees must maintain all financial records supporting documents, statistical
  records, and all other records pertinent to the award for at least 3 years following
  the close of the most recent audit.
Account Identification:
  15-0401-0-1-754.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $14,879,140; FY 08 $11,750,000; and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Not available.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  None.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Program Application Kit and Questions and Answers posted regularly on the
  OJP website at http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/BJA/grant/reentry.html.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Justice, Office of Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Assistance,
  810 Seventh Street, N.W., Washington, DC 20531. Contact Robert Hendricks,
  Policy Advisor. Telephone: (202) 616-6500 or (1-866) 859-2687 or by E-mail:
  AskBJA@usdoj.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/bja.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  See solicitation for selection criteria and required elements.
16.203 COMPREHENSIVE APPROACHES TO SEX
OFFENDER MANAGEMENT DISCRETIONARY GRANT
(CASOM)
