   (CASOM)                                                                           
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS, SEX OFFENDER SENTENCING,                               
  MONITORING, APPREHENDING, REGISTERING AND TRACKING                                 
  (SMART) OFFICE, DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE                                              
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994; Public Law 102-322,         
  Sec. 40152, codified at 42 U.S.C. Sec. 13941, the Comprehensive Approaches         
  to Sex Offender Management (CASOM) Discretionary Grant.                            
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To assist state, local and tribal jurisdictions in improving their adult and/or    
  juvenile sex offender management policies and practices by critically examining    
  existing approaches to monitoring and managing the population; identifying         
  significant gaps and needs in the monitoring and management of sex offenders       
  and developing training and technical assistance to address these identified       
  needs.                                                                             
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants (Discretionary); Training.                                          
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  The Sex Offender Management Discretionary Grant funds may be used to               
  provide training and technical assistance to jurisdictions with reference to sex   
  offender management and accountability. Training and technical assistance          
  should be targeted to probation and parole officers and other personnel who        
  provide case management, supervision, or relapse prevention services to non-       
  incarcerated sex offenders or who are responsible for sex offender registration    
  compliance.                                                                        
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Non-profit and for-profit organizations, institutions of higher education, tribal  
  entities, States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the   
  Virgin Islands, America Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, local, and      
  tribal communities who are interested in addressing the management of juvenile,    
  adult, or a mixed population of sex offenders through the provision of training    
  and technical assistance are eligible to apply for this grant program. Applicants  
  must coordinate their proposal with others in their jurisdiction to ensure a       
  collaborative response to this solicitation as well as to ensure that agencies     
  within a single jurisdiction are not competing against one another in the grant    
  process.                                                                           
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  State, local and tribal agencies (e.g. parole, probation, pretrial services, etc.) 
  responsible for sex offender management, accountability, registration and          
  supervision to implement training programs to enhance strategies for managing      
  sex offender in the community. Non-profit or for-profit organizations,             
  institutions of higher learning and tribal entities with demonstrated experience in
  sex offender management and accountability issues and delivery of training and     
  technical assistance to implement national training and technical assistance       
  program on sex offender management, accountability, registration and               
  supervision.                                                                       
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  The applicant must submit a completed Application for Federal Assistance           
  (Standard Form 424), including signed assurances that it will comply with          
  statutory and administrative requirements. The applicant is also required to       
                                                                                     
  submit a description that includes the goals of the program, the implementation

                                                                                     
  process, timetable for implementation, how the State will coordinate substance

                                                                                     
  abuse treatment activities at the State and local levels, and the State's law or

                                                                                     
  policy requiring substance abuse testing of individuals in correctional residential
  substance abuse treatment programs.                                                
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.

                                                                                     
Application Procedure:

                                                                                     
  All applications must be submitted electronically at: http://www.grants.gov.

                                                                                     
  Applications or supplemental materials received by facsimile or postal mail will

                                                                                     
  not be accepted.

                                                                                     
Award Procedure:

                                                                                     
  Grantees are notified by e-mail 7 to 10 days after Congress has been notified.

                                                                                     
  Grantees must print award, have signed by the authorized official and returned

                                                                                     
  to the Office of Justice Programs by facsimile or mail.

                                                                                     
Deadlines:

  See the program solicitation or contact the Department of Justice, Office of       
  Justice Programs, SMART Office, Telephone: 202-514-4689 or by e-mail at            
  GetSMART@usdoj.gov.                                                                
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Applications will generally be approved or denied within 120 days of receipt of a  
  completed application.                                                             
Appeals:

  Discretionary grant applicants will be notified in writing of reasons for          
  disapproval of their application.                                                  
Renewals:

  Grants can be extended by submitting a written justification for an extension to   
  the SMART Office for review. Extensions are subject to approval by the



                                                                                11-08
  SMART Office and congressional funding.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Grants are discretionary and are awarded based on the merits of the application
  submitted to the SMART Office. A 25 percent match may be required for this
  grant program, and the funding for this project may not exceed 75 percent.
  Contributions may be cash, in-kind services, or a combination of both.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Funds for each fiscal year will be awarded for a period that includes the fiscal
  year of the appropriation plus one additional year.
Reports:
  Recipients are required to submit semi-annual Progress Reports and quarterly
  Financial Reports.
Audits:
  Payments and transactions are subject to audits by the Government
  Accountability Office, Department of Justice's Office of the Inspector General,
  State or local government auditors, and auditors from independent public
  accounting firms. Jurisdictions must follow their local policies and procedures,
  including maintenance of reliable and accurate accounting systems, record
  keeping, and systems of internal control. All organizations that expend financial
  assistance of $500,000 or more in any fiscal year must have a single audit for
  that year in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-133, as amended, unless the
  audit condition on the award says otherwise. These audits are due to the
  cognizant Federal agency not later than 9 months after the end of the grantee's
  fiscal year. Performance Measures: To assist in fulfilling the Department's
  responsibilities under the Government Performance and Results Act (GPRA),
  P.L. 103-62, applicants who receive funding under this solicitation must provide
  data that measures the results of their work.
Records:
  In accordance with the requirement set forth in 28 CFR, Parts 66 and 70,
  grantees must maintain all financial records, supporting documents, statistical
  records, and all other records pertinent to the award for at least 3 years following
  the close of the most recent audit.
Account Identification:
  15-0404-0-1-754.
Obligations:
  FY 07 est not available; FY 08 $4,162,000; and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Varies.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  See program web site.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Program Guidance and Application Kit, and the OJP Financial Guide.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Office of Sex Offender Sentencing, Monitoring, Apprehending, Registering and
  Tracking, Office of Justice Programs, Department of Justice, 810 Seventh Street,
  N.W., Washington, DC 20531. Contact: Jacqueline O'Reilly, Grant Program
  Specialist. Telephone: (202) 514-5024.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/smart .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Visit web site address.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  A review panel convened by the SMART Office will evaluate all applications on
  the basis of the following criteria: (1) The application clearly exhibits a
  commitment to collaboration, including meaningful collaboration across public
  sector agencies and with nonprofit, non-governmental victim services
  organizations; (2) the application identifies a problem that is consistent with the
  purposes of this initiative; (3) The application describes a project that effectively
  addresses the problem statement; (4) The implementation strategy, time line, and
  capability of the organization and staff are sound; (5) The application articulates
  clearly the jurisdiction's goals, outcomes, and objectives and describes the
  accountability system and performance measures to determine progress towards
  achieving them; (6) The project demonstrates meaningful attention to the safety
  of victims of sex offenses and holds offenders accountable for their criminal
  behavior by enhancing capacity through training and technical assistance; (7)
  The application identifies specific individuals, or a process to identify
  individuals, to serve as the Grant Manager, Grant Coordinator, and Research
  Coordinator for the effort, and demonstrates the skills, roles, and involvement of
  these individuals; and (8) The budget is reasonable as it relates to project
  activities.
16.300 LAW ENFORCEMENT ASSISTANCE-FBI
ADVANCED POLICE TRAINING
   (FBI Academy, Advanced Specialized Courses)
                                                                                      553
