  clarification regarding information in a prior record or disposition. After        
  analyzing all information, the FFL is then contacted with a "Proceed" or a         
  "Deny" status.                                                                     
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                     
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Initial request for services must be from a licensed and enrolled FFL. For checks  
  performed by the FBI, FFLs may contact the NICS Operation Center by                
  telephone via a toll-free number or, in the future, electronically by computer.    
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Deadlines:                                                                           
  None.                                                                              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Three business days.                                                               
Appeals:                                                                             
  Persons denied the right to purchase a firearm may appeal the denial by writing    
  to the NICS Program Office, Post Office Box 4278, Clarksburg, WV 26302-            
  4278. Another option that is available is e-mailing the appeal to:                 
  a_nics@leo.gov .                                                                   
Renewals:                                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  None.                                                                              
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  None.

                                                                                     
Reports:

                                                                                     
  None.

                                                                                     
Audits:

  The CJIS Division internal audit staff conducts audits of Point of Contact states  
  to ensure compliance with the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act                
  requirements, FBI NICS regulation, and the validation of the completeness and      
  accuracy of the states criminal history records. Additionally, the audit staff     
  conducts audits of Protection Order File (POF) records nationwide. The             
  accuracy of the criminal history records and the POF data is critical to the NICS  
  Program since this is the information that the NICS bases its decision on          
  whether the transfer of the firearm would violate state or federal laws.           
  Furthermore, the internal audit staff conducts audits to determine the accuracy of 
  data submitted by federal agencies for inclusion in the NICS Index.                
Records:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Account Identification:                                                              
  15-0200-0-1-751.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  FY 07 $24,880,582; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.            
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  None.                                                                              
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  None.                                                                              
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  Title 28, CFR, Part 25 National Instant Criminal Background Check System           
  Regulation, Public Laws 103-159 Federal Regulations, NICS Brochure, Appeals        
  Brochure, POC Manual and FFL Manual.                                               
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  NICS Program Office, Post Office Box 4278, Clarksburg, WV 26302-4278.              
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Assistant Director, Criminal Justice Information Services Division, Federal        
  Bureau of Investigation, Department of Justice, 1000 Custer Hollow Road,           
  Clarksburg, WV 26306. Telephone: (304) 625-2222. FTS: (304) 625-2222.              
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.fbi.gov .                                                               
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  None.                                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  None.                                                                              
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  None.                                                                              
                                                                                     
16.320 SERVICES FOR TRAFFICKING VICTIMS                                              
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS, OFFICE FOR VICTIMS OF CRIME,

                                                                                     
  DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

                                                                                     
AUTHORIZATION:

                                                                                     
  22 USC 7105(b)(2)(A).

                                                                                     
OBJECTIVES:

  To provide assistance to victims of severe forms of trafficking (i.e., sex         
  trafficking in which a commercial sex act is induced by force, fraud, or coercion, 
  or in which the person induced to perform such act has not attained 18 years of    
                                                                                     
  age; or the recruitment, harboring, transportation, provision or obtaining of a

                                                                                     
  person for labor or services, through the use of force, fraud, or coercion for the

                                                                                     


                                                                               11-08 
  purpose of subjection to involuntary servitude, peonage, debt bondage, or
  slavery) without regard to the immigration status of the victim. A set aside of
  the total appropriation for the following purposes is as follows: three percent for
  research, evaluation, and statistics; two percent for training and technical
  assistance; and one percent for management and administration of grant funds.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants; Direct Payments for Specified Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funding under this program is intended primarily, but not exclusively, to meet
  victims' pre-certification needs. Pre-certification refers to the period of time
  between when trafficking victims are initially identified by law enforcement and
  officially certified by the Federal government as such. In FY 04, 10 cooperative
  agreements to provide comprehensive victim services were awarded under this
  program. During FY 05, OVC made one award of $281,595 to support training
  and technical assistance to victim service organizations to enhance their services
  to trafficking victims. OVC also made one award of $499,155 to a grantee for
  the provision of comprehensive services. Beginning in 2004, OVC joined with
  its sister agency, the Bureau of Justice Assistance (BJA) to support an expanded
  strategy of funding anti-trafficking task forces in cities throughout the country
  known to have a high concentration of trafficking victims. This task force
  strategy focuses on enhancing law enforcement's ability to identify and rescue
  victims of human trafficking; providing law enforcement with the resources and
  training to identify and rescue victims of trafficking; and to ensuring that
  comprehensive services are available wherever trafficking victims are found.
  OVC and BJA released a joint competitive solicitation in FY 06 that resulted in
  the creation of 10 new law enforcement task forces and funding for victim
  service provision in areas where new task forces were formed. In FY 07, BJA
  awarded supplemental funding to six task forces. BJA has provided funding to
  42 local and state law enforcement anti-trafficking task forces across the
  country. This year, OVC awarded supplemental funding to 13 Services for
  Trafficking Victims grantees to continue providing services to pre-certified
  trafficking victims. To date, OVC has funded 31 victim service agencies to
  provide a wide range of services to trafficking victims in the United States.
  Comprehensive Services awards support the creation and/or enhancement of
  collaborative networks that will provide critical services for trafficking victims
  within a given community or region. These awards are intended to build
  community-based networks of comprehensive, integrated, and culturally
  appropriate services for trafficking victims. Applicants must demonstrate to
  capacity to quickly mobilize resources to accommodate the needs of potentially
  large numbers of victims and the ability to coordinate with other trafficking
  programs and other service providers. OVC anticipates releasing a competitive
  solicitation to fund new cooperative agreements to provide comprehensive
  victim services contingent on the availability and amount of FY 2008 funding.
  In order to receive Department of Justice funding support and the assistance of
  the local U.S. Attorney, local law enforcement agencies and victim services
  providers are required to enter into a Memorandum of Understanding with all
  task force members committing themselves to collaborating together on
  investigations and assistance to victims.
Applicant Eligibility:
  The Attorney General may make grants to States, Indian tribes, units of local
  government, and nonprofit, non- governmental victims service organizations.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Eligible victim assistance agencies. Eligibility depends on the nature of the grant
  but may include a wide variety of public and private nonprofit agencies.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applications for this program must be submitted electronically via Grants.gov;
  at a time specified by the Office for Victims of Crime, Office of Justice
  Programs and must contain the following certification and assurances: (1) assure
  that the applicant will provide such accounting, auditing, monitoring and
  evaluation procedures as may be necessary, and keep such records as the Office
  of Justice Programs may prescribe, to assure fiscal control, proper management
  and efficient disbursement of Federal funds; (2) assure that the applicant will
  adhere to the audit and financial management requirements set forth in the
  effective edition of the OJP Financial Guide; (3) assure that the applicant will
  comply with all applicable nondiscrimination requirements including civil rights
  compliance, non-discrimination against eligible applicants that are faith or
  community-based organizations, services to persons with Limited English
  Proficiency, and protection of human research subjects; (4) certify that the
  applicant will comply with certifications regarding Lobbying, Debarment,
  Suspension, and Drug-Free Workplace Requirements (OJP Form 4061/6); and
  other responsibility matters; and, (5) certify that the information in the
  application is correct and that the applicant will comply with all applicable
  provisions of the Victims of Crime Act and other Federal laws, (including
  subtitle A, Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) 1990)
  regulations, and circulars. Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB
  Circular No. A-87 or OMB Circular No. A-133.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The standard application form furnished by the Federal agency in accordance
  with 28 CFR, Part 66 (Common Rule) must be used for all grants made by the
  Office for Victims of Crime. This program is excluded from coverage under
                                                                                    559
