  E.O. 12372.                                                                        
Application Procedure:                                                               
  In accordance with the Common Rule, Standard Form 424 must be submitted by         
  nonfederal agencies in applying for funding under this program electronically      
  via grants.gov. Forms for funds other than grants or for use by Federal Agencies   
  will be supplied by OVC.                                                           
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Generally awards will be made on a competitive basis with applications             
  reviewed by a panel of subject matter experts who will assess application          
  submissions based on established criteria and forward a recommendation to the      
  Director of the Office for Victims of Crime. The Assistant Attorney General,       
  Office of Justice Programs has final approval authority.                           
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Deadlines will be announced by OVC in its Trafficking Victims Protection Act       
  Discretionary Grant solicitation and application guidelines, available on the      
  OVC homepage at http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/ovc/.                                     
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Approximately 3-5 months.                                                          
Appeals:                                                                             
  Hearing by the Assistant Attorney General, Office of Justice Programs.             
Renewals:                                                                            
  Supplements are considered on an individualized basis, based on grantee            
  performance and the need for service provisions to trafficking victims within      
  the geographic area of coverage, as well as the existence of anti-trafficking task 
  forces funded through the Bureau of Justice Assistance.                            
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Eligible applicants must match the Trafficking Victims Protection Act grant        
  program funds with a 25 percent cash contribution or the value equivalent of an    
  in-kind contribution(s). In-kind match refers to the value of something received   
  or provided that does not have a cost associated with it.                          
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Fiscal Year 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006 and 2007 trafficking funds may be carried       
  for obligation by the grantee for the duration of their grant award. Funds are     
  released via electronic funds transfer. Grantees must become enrolled in the       
  Automated Clearinghouse (ACH) Vendor Express Program to request any                
  Federal funds.                                                                     
Reports:                                                                             
  Quarterly financial reports and semi-annual progress reports will be required as   
  stipulated in the effective edition of the OJP Financial Guide. A final financial  
  and program report also will be required.                                          
Audits:                                                                              
  All organizations that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in any      
  fiscal year must have a single audit for that year in accordance with OMB          
  Circular No. A-133, as amended, unless the audit condition on the award says

  otherwise. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency not later than 9

  months after the end of the grantee's fiscal year.

                                                                                     
Records:                                                                             
  Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other        
  records pertinent to a grant shall be retained for a period of 3 years.            
Account Identification:                                                              
  15-0404-0-1-754.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  FY 07 $9,872,280; FY 08 $9,400,000; and FY 09 est not available.                   
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  In FY 08, OVC may award grants ranging from $200,000 to $500,000 for 1-3           
  years to support services to trafficking victims. Additional awards to support     
  research and evaluation and training and technical assistance may be made.         
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  Since the inception of the program over 1,900 pre-certified trafficking victims    
  have been served by grantee recipients. Grantees have also provided substantive    
  training on trafficking to over 89,000 individuals, including law enforcement      
  officers. OVC now funds a total of 31 direct service projects, as well as one      
  project that provides mobile services. Comprehensive services grants provide       
  direct services to meet the broad range of needs of trafficking victims, including 
  case management; legal services; medical, dental, and mental health services;      
  advocacy, emergency and longer-term housing; education and job skills training;    
  and interpreter services. The specialized services grants provide a quickly        
  mobilized single service over a broad geographical area, such as mental health     
  assessment and crisis intervention. OVC continues to coordinate closely with the   
  Office for Refugee Resettlement at the Department of Health and Human              
  Services through periodic coordination meetings to ensure that their respective    
  programs for trafficking victims, outreach efforts, and training and technical     
  assistance priorities for trafficking grantees are not duplicative and proactively 
  address issues that arise from the field on service provision to trafficking       
  victims. Funding from this program was previously transferred to the National      
  Institute of Justice to support a ground-breaking evaluation of three of the OVC   
  funded comprehensive service sites. Final results were completed this year.        
  Through its Training and Technical Assistance Center, OVC has developed            
  substantive resources for its grantees to collect data and track performance of    
  their projects.                                                                    


560                                                                            11-08

REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  OVC discretionary grant solicitations and application guidelines and the current
  edition of the OJP Financial Guide are available on-line at the OVC webpage:
  http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/ovc/.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Office for Victims of Crime, Office of Justice Programs, Department of Justice,
  810 Seventh Street, N.W., Washington, DC 20531. Telephone: (202) 307-5983,
  or Joye Frost, Director, Program Development and Dissemination Division,
  Office for Victims of Crime; Telephone: (202) 305-1715.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/ovc/.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  93.598, Services to Victims of a Severe Form of Trafficking; 93.566, Refugee
  and Entrant Assistance_State Administered Programs.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  (a) Comprehensive Services projects provide a holistic approach to assisting
  trafficking victims by either directly providing services or coordinating access to
  services that provide shelter and sustenance, general health and mental health
  care, legal services, jobs skills training, cultural support from the community,
  and educational services. Applicants must establish an advisory committee to
  guide the project; conduct an assessment of existing community services,
  resources, and needs; identify key partners including law enforcement and
  governmental and non-governmental entities; and develop a plan to sustain the
  project after Federal funding ends. (b) Supplemental and Specialized Services
  projects must demonstrate capacity to provide discrete services such as legal,
  housing, or mental health services to trafficking victims with very little notice
  and lead time within a given geographical area; for fluctuating numbers of
  victims; for victims with extremely limited resources; for victims from diverse
  cultural and linguistic backgrounds; and for victims who have experienced
  distinct or multiple forms of victimization, including psychical and sexual
  assault, forced labor, denial of medical care, etc. Programs must collaborate as
  appropriate with recipients of funding for Comprehensive services, and ensure
  trafficking victims have access to: emergency and long-term medical and mental
  health care, legal services including immigration advocacy, interpreter and
  translation services, social service and criminal justice system-based advocacy,
  outreach services directed toward immigrant populations, special services for
  victims who are juveniles, and job skills training.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  General criteria for selecting proposals have been developed by the Office for
  Victims of Crime and are included in the OVC Services for Trafficking Victims
  Discretionary Grant program Solicitations and Application Guidelines.
16.321 ANTITERRORISM EMERGENCY RESERVE
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS, OFFICE FOR VICTIMS OF CRIME,
  DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
AUTHORIZATION:
  42 U.S.C. 10601(d)(5), 42 U.S.C. 10603b(b), 42 U.S.C. 10603b(a).
OBJECTIVES:
  Encompasses two programs for victims of terrorism and/or mass violence: (1)
  Antiterrorism and Emergency Assistance Program (AEAP) and (2) The
  International Terrorism Victim Expense Reimbursement Program (ITVERP).
  The AEAP provides assistance and compensation services for victims of
  domestic terrorism and mass violence and assistance for victims of international
  terrorism. ITVERP provides compensation for victims of acts of international
  terrorism that occur outside the United States for expenses associated with that
  victimization.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Contracts); Direct Payments for Specified Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  AEAP funds are available specifically for services to victims of terrorism and/or
  mass violence. Funded activities may include compensation, emergency relief,
  including crisis response efforts, assistance, training and technical assistance,
  and ongoing assistance, including during any investigation or prosecution to
  victims of terrorist acts or mass violence occurring within and outside the United
  States. ITVERP provides reimbursement for victims of international terrorism
  specifically for expenses incurred for medical, mental health, funeral and burial,
  property loss, and other miscellaneous costs.
Applicant Eligibility:
  AEAP: Criteria will vary depending on the grant. For terrorism or mass violence
  occurring within or outside the U.S., eligible applicants for funding under
  VOCA, Title II, 42 U.S.C. 1603b, 1404B, include states, victim service
  organizations, and public agencies (including federal, State and local
  governments) and non-governmental organizations that provide assistance to
  victims of crime. With the exception of ITVERP, OVC does not provide
  funding directly to individual crime victims. ITVERP: For an applicant to be
  eligible to receive reimbursement under ITVERP as authorized under VOCA,
