  Title II, 42 U.S.C. 10603c, 1404C, an individual must be a national of the         
  United States or an officer or employee of the U.S. Government, as of the date     
  on which the act of terrorism occurred. In addition, the individual must have      
  suffered direct physical or emotional injury or death as a result of an act of     
  international terrorism occurring on or after December 21, 1988, with respect to   
  which an investigation or prosecution was ongoing after April 24, 1996.            
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  AEAP: Public and private nonprofit victim assistance agencies; victims of          
  domestic and international terrorism. Eligibility depends on the nature of the     
  grant. ITVERP: The law requires that the individual victim must have suffered      
  direct physical or emotional injury or death as a result of an act of international
  terrorism occurring on or after December 21, 1988, with respect to which an        
  investigation or prosecution was ongoing or was commenced after April 24,          
  1996. In the case of a victim who is a minor, incompetent, incapacitated, or is    
  killed, a family member or legally designated representative of the victim may     
  receive expense reimbursement on behalf of the victim. In addition to the victim,  
  claimants may include the following: Spouse of the victim, Parents of the victim,  
  Children of the victim, Siblings of the victim, Legally designated victim          
  representative.                                                                    
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  All potential applicants shall submit a written proposal along with a budget and   
  budget narrative to the OVC Director for consideration. Proposals submitted by     
  State crime victim compensation program administrators should include the          
  following: (1) a description of the qualifying crime; (2) the projected number of  
  claims to be paid and the projected number of claimants to receive payments; (3)   
  the states maximum award amount by category, such as medical, mental health,       
  lost wages, funeral, etc.; and (4) a description of the range of expenses covered  
  by the program and the amount of state funding available to cover victim claims.   
  Proposals submitted by State crime victim assistance administrators, and all       
  other applicants seeking crime victim assistance, should include the following:    
  (1) type of crime and description of the criminal event; (2) identification of the 
  lead law enforcement agency conducting the investigation; (3) estimated number     
  of victims affected by the crime; (4) description of the applicant's role in       
  responding to the victim population since the date of the incident; (5)            
  description of services that this funding will support and how these efforts will  
  complement services already in place or will respond to an unmet need; (6) the     
  amount of funding requested and the time frame for support; and (7) description    
  of outreach and coordination with other public and private entities during the     
  process of preparing the request for assistance. Once approved for applying, an    
  AEAP solicitation, with detailed instructions on applying as well as reporting     
  requirements, will be posted on the OJP electronic Grants Management System        
  (GMS). Applicants, except Federal agencies, must submit through GMS (1) SF-        
  424, Application for Federal Funding and applicable assurances and forms; and      
  (2) Budget and budget narrative including a description of all other federal and   
  nonfederal contributions (cash or in-kind). Applications for the AEAP must be      
  submitted to the OVC Director as soon as practical following a terrorist or mass   
  violence event by the appropriate State or federal official or private victim      
  service and non-governmental organizations. ITVERP: All potential applicants       
  shall submit a written application along with all supporting documentation to      
  OVC for consideration. There are three application types: An Itemized              
  application should be used by those eligible claimants who are aking a first-time  
  request for reimbursement of out-of-pocket expenses that were paid following an    
  international terrorism event. An Interim Emergency application should be used     
  by eligible claimants seeking funds for an immediate need such as medical          
  treatment, short-term lodging, or emergency transportation. A Supplemental         
  application should be used by eligible claimants whose expenses have changed       
  since they submitted an initial application. The supplemental application is for   
  bills that may have been received late, or for new services that were not          
  originally thought necessary.                                                      
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  The standard application form furnished by the Federal agency in accordance        
  with 28 CFR Part 66 (Common Rule) must be used for all grants made by OVC.         
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                           
Application Procedure:                                                               
  AEAP: Applications will be accepted following an incident of terrorism or mass     
  violence in accordance with the timetable set forth in the AEAP Guidelines.        
  There are two factors that determine the application submission requirements for   
  the AEAP: (1) the applicant status, i.e., government agency (Federal, State, or    
  local), non-governmental organization, or victim service organization; and (2)     
  the type of support requested, i.e., crisis response, consequence management,      
  criminal justice, victim compensation, technical assistance (no direct funding).   
  Application requirements are listed below. Application requirements for State      
  crime victim compensation programs - Funding will be made available to State       
  crime victim compensation programs in response to an incident of terrorism         
  within the United States in the form of a grant. Requests for funding from State   
  crime victim compensation programs may be made at any time in the aftermath        
  of an incident and should include: (1) a description of the qualifying crime; (2)  
  the projected number of claims to be paid and the projected number of claimants    
  to receive payments; (3) the State's maximum award amount by category, i.e.,       
  medical, mental health, loss wages, funeral, etc.; and (4) SF-424, Application for 
                                                                                11-08
  Federal Assistance and applicable assurances and forms. The request should
  also describe the range of expenses covered by the program and the amount of
  State funding available to cover victim claims. Application requirements for all
  other recipients of funds -All other applicants seeking Antiterrorism Emergency
  Reserve support are required to submit a letter of request containing the
  following information: (1) Type of crime and description of the criminal event;
  (2) Identification of the lead law enforcement agency conducting the
  investigation; (3) Estimated number of victims affected by the crime; (4)
  Description of the applicant's role in responding to the victim population since
  the date of the incident; (5) Description of services that funding will support and
  how these efforts will complement services in place or respond to an unmet
  need; (6) The amount of funding requested and the time frame for support; and
  (7) Description of outreach and coordination with other public and private
  entities in the process of preparing the request for assistance. To Request
  Training and Technical Assistance Support - Training and Technical Assistance
  may be requested by submitting a letter describing the nature of the problem; the
  type of expertise or assistance needed; the duration of assistance; and the
  projected outcomes of the technical assistance or training. See OVC guidelines
  published in the Federal Register (Vol. 67, No. 21, Thursday, January 31, 2002)
  for additional information on application requirements for the AEAP. ITVERP:
  Step 1: Identify the type of application you are applying for by marking the
  appropriate type at the top of the application form. In addition, a supplemental
  sheet must be filled out by applicants. Sections B and F should be answered by
  all applicants; section G should be answered by Itemized and Supplemental
  applicants only. Detailed instructions are included. Step 2: If you believe that
  you are an eligible victim of a "designated" international terrorism event, please
  use the following forms and information to prepare your application for
  reimbursement. Required Documentation: A victim is required to submit
  documentation that provides proof of identity, citizenship, employment, and
  damage/injury sustained during the international terrorism event. A victim's
  family member or representative is required to submit documentation of his/her
  relationship to the victim plus medical information or a death certificate as
  appropriate, in addition to the items named above. In all cases, receipts for
  expenses incurred in the recovery process will be required. If any of the
  requireddocumentshavebeendestroyedandareunavailablefromanyothersource,
  you must provide and certify a list of destroyed documents and how each would
  apply to your ITVERP application.
Award Procedure:
  AEAP: Upon receipt and internal review of a complete application, it is the
  intention of OVC to notify applicants of funding decision within 5 business days
  or as soon as practicable. The applicant may be notified by telephone, Internet
  or facsimile. ITVERP: After review of each application, the Director shall
  determine the eligibility of the victim or representative and the amount, if any,
  eligible for reimbursement, specifying the reasons for such determination and
  the findings of fact and conclusions of law supporting it. A copy of the
  determination shall be mailed to the claimant at his last known address.
Deadlines:
  AEAP: The established time frames for funding are flexible and not intended to
  prohibit the submission of applications at a different time, if warranted.
  However, applicants should make every available effort to submit applications
  within the maximum parameters of the grant (Crisis Response Grant, up to 9
  months; Consequence Management Grant, up to 18 months; Criminal Justice
  Support Grant, up to 36 months). ITVERP: The deadline for an application is
  three years from the date of the act of international terrorism. At the discretion of
  the Director, the deadline for filing a claim may be extended to a date not later
  than three years from the date of the determination that there is a reasonable
  indication that an act of international terrorism has occurred, under 94.21(a).
  For claims related to acts of international terrorism that occurred after December
  21, 1988, but before the establishment of this program, the application deadline
  is three years from the effective date of program implementation (October 6,
  2006).
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  AEAP: It is OVC's intention to make a funding decision within 5 business days
  of receipt of a complete application or as soon as practicable. ITVERP: It is
  OVCs intention to review and process payments as soon as practicable. For
  itemized and supplemental claims, range of approval/disapproval is dependant
  upon receipt of an official determination of a reasonable indication of an act of
  international terrorism from the Assistant Attorney General of National Security
  for a particular event, Processing time is also dependant upon timely response by
  claimants of any outstanding documents or information required to process
  claim applications. Claimants may apply for an interim emergency payment,
  prior to a determination under Section 94.21(a). If the Director determines that
  such payment is necessary to avoid or mitigate substantial hardship that may
  result from delaying reimbursement until complete and final consideration of an
  application, such payment may be made to cover immediate expenses such as
  those of medical care, funeral and burial, short-term lodging, and emergency
  transportation.
Appeals:
  For both programs, hearing by the Assistant Attorney General, Office of Justice
  Programs.
                                                                                     561
