Renewals:                                                                            
  AEAP: See OVC guidelines for Antiterrorism and Emergency Assistance                
  Program for Terrorism and Mass Violence Crimes published in the Federal            
  Register, Vol. 67, No. 21, Thursday, January 31, 2002. ITVERP: Not applicable.     
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  AEAP: There are no formula or matching requirements. Nonfederal                    
  contributions (cash or in-kind) are expected for Antiterrorism Emergency           
  Reserve assistance program grants. Federal agencies are not expected to make a     
  financial contribution. ITVERP: Not applicable to the ITVERP, except that the      
  amount awarded will be offset by collateral sources.                               
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  AEAP: For grants, dollars remaining unspent by the State or program within 3       
  fiscal years after the end of the fiscal year in which the award was made, will    
  revert to the Crime Victims Fund/Antiterrorism Emergency Reserve. Funds are        
  released via the Electronic Transfer System (formerly the Letter of Credit         
  System) on an as needed basis to the recipient.                                    
Reports:                                                                             
  AEAP: Quarterly financial reports and semi-annual progress reports will be         
  required as stipulated in the effective edition of the OJP Financial Guide. A      
  final financial and program report also will be required. ITVERP: There are no     
  reporting requirements for claimants under ITVERP.                                 
Audits:                                                                              
  AEAP: All organizations that expend financial assistance of $300,000 or more in    
  any fiscal year must have a single audit for that year in accordance with OMB      
  Circular No. A-133, as amended, unless the audit condition on the award says       
  otherwise. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency not later than 9   
  months after the end of the grantee's fiscal year. Not applicable to ITVERP.       
Records:                                                                             
  AEAP: Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other  
  records pertinent to a grant shall be retained for a period of 3 years. IITVERP:   
  Files are retained on hard copy and on a computer database. All claim files and    
  automated data pertaining to a claim are destroyed 10 years after the date the     
  claim has been fully processed and/or payment made, as approved by the             
  National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Automated data is

  retained in its most current form only, however, and as information is updated,

                                                                                     
  outdated information is deleted.

Account Identification:                                                              
  15-5041-0-2-754.

Obligations:                                                                         
  FY 07 $50,000,000; FY 08 $50,000,000; and FY 09 est not available.                 
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  Varies depending on terrorism/mass violence event and specific need(s).            
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  OVC has and continues to provide mental health counseling and other services       
  or compensation to students, faculty, and emergency services personnel             
  following fatal school shootings in 2005 and 2006 at the Nickel Mines Amish        
  Schoolhouse in Pennsylvania, Platte Canyon High School in Colorado, and Red        
  Lake High School on the Red Lake Indian Reservation in Minnesota, and to           
  witnesses of a courthouse shooting and subsequent carjacking in 2005 in            
  Atlanta, Georgia. OVC has supported mental health services for New York City       
  firefighters, police officers, emergency medical technicians, and other            
  emergency responders who experienced emotional and psychological trauma at         
  Ground Zero. OVC has also provided funding for assistance and services for         
  victims of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in the USA, Oklahoma City,     
  the bombings of Pan Am 103, the US Embassies in Kenya and Tanzania,                
  Khobar Towers, the USS Cole, and the terrorist attacks in Bali, Indonesia, Saudi   
  Arabia, Afghanistan and Iraq (e.g. bombing of UN Headquarters in Baghdad).         
  Assistance has included toll-free information lines, family web sites,             
  informational briefings, travel to criminal justice proceedings, and mental health 
  counseling. In addition, OVC works in liaison with other Federal agencies to       
  coordinate services for victims of terrorism; has worked with the Center for       
  Mental Health Services at HHS to develop training for mental health service        
  providers on assisting victims of terrorism and mass violence; and is working      
  with the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to better coordinate           
  and collaborate on victim services in the event of a mass crisis incident.         
  ITVERP: As of October 2007, ITVERP has received twenty-five applications.          
  Of those, six applications have been approved, processed, and paid. Over           
  $25,000 in reimbursement payments has been paid out to applicants.                 
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  AEAP Application Kit and current edition of the OJP Financial Guide are            
  available on the OVC web site at www.ovc.gov or by writing to Office for           
  Victims of Crime, Office of Justice Programs, Department of Justice, 810           
  Seventh Street, NW., Washington, DC 20531; Telephone: (202) 307-5983.              
  ITVERP application materials and program information are available on the          
  OVC web site at www.ovc.gov or by writing to Office for Victims of Crime,          
  Office of Justice Programs, Department of Justice, 810 Seventh Street, NW.,        
  Washington, DC 20531; Telephone: (202) 307-5983.                                   
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Headquarters Office:                                                                 


562                                                                            11-08

  For AEAP and ITVERP information, contact the Office for Victims of Crime,
  Office of Justice Programs, Department of Justice, 810 Seventh Street, NW.,
  Washington, DC 20531. Telephone: (202) 307-5983.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ovc.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  16.575, Crime Victim Assistance; 16.576, Crime Victim Compensation; 16.582,
  Crime Victim Assistance/Discretionary Grants.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  AEAP: Potential projects may include, but are not limited to: crisis response
  grants to provide resources to help victims rebuild adaptive capacities, decrease
  stressors, and to reduce symptoms of trauma immediately following the
  terrorism or mass violence event; consequence management grants designed to
  provide supplemental resources to help victims adapt to the trauma event and to
  restore victims' sense of equilibrium; criminal justice support grants to facilitate
  victim participation in an investigation or prosecution directly related to the
  terrorist and mass violence event; crime victim compensation grants to provide
  supplemental funding to a State crime victim compensation program that
  reimburses victims for out-of-pocket expenses related to their victimization in
  cases of terrorism or mass violence occurring within the United States; training
  and technical assistance for States and local communities to help when
  responding to terrorism and mass violence; and assistance to victims of acts of
  international terrorism that occur outside the United States. ITVERP: Applicants
  have received payments for the following terrorism events: bombing of a
  housing compound in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia; nightclub bombings in Bali,
  Indonesia; the airport bombing in Davao City, Philippines; the U.S. embassy
  bombings in Nairobi, Kenya; and the Khobar Towers bombing in Dhahran,
  Saudi Arabia.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  General criteria for selecting proposals are spelled out in the guidelines,
  regulations, and application kits for these programs. Additional criteria may be
  developed by the Office for Victims of Crime and will be published in the
  application packages.
16.523 JUVENILE ACCOUNTABILITY BLOCK GRANTS
   (JABG)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF JUVENILE JUSTICE AND DELINQUENCY PREVENTION,
  OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS, DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Law 107-273.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide States and units of local government with funds to develop programs
  to strengthen and promote greater accountability in the juvenile justice system.
  To survey the field and identify projects that would benefit from research,
  demonstration, and evaluation in the 16 purpose areas identified in the JABG
  Program. To provide training and technical assistance to States and units of local
  government so they may develop programs outlined in the 16 program areas to
  promote greater accountability in the juvenile justice system.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants; Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  A total of $49,361,400 has been appropriated in FY 2007 to be used as follows:
  Formula grant funds in the amount of $40,245,992 will be available for use in
  the following areas: (1) Developing, implementing, and administering graduated
  sanctions for juvenile offenders. (2) Building, expanding, renovating or
  operating temporary or permanent juvenile correction, detention, or corrections
  facilities. (3) Hiring juvenile court judges, probation officers, and court-
  appointed defenders and special advocates, and funding pretrial services
  (including mental health screening and assessment) for juvenile offenders, to
  promote the effective and expeditious administration of the juvenile justice
  system. (4) Hiring additional prosecutors so that more cases involving violent
  juvenile offenders can be prosecuted and case backlogs reduced. (5) Providing
  funding to enable prosecutors to address drug, gang, and youth violence
  problems more effectively and for technology, equipment and training to assist
  prosecutors in identifying and expediting the prosecution of violent juvenile
  offenders. (6) Establishing and maintaining training programs for law
  enforcement and other court personnel with respect to preventing and controlling
  juvenile crime. (7) Establishing juvenile gun courts for the prosecution and
  adjudication of juvenile firearms offenders. (8) Establishing drug court programs
  for juvenile offenders that provide continuing judicial supervision over juvenile
  offenders with substance abuse problems and the integrated administration of
  other sanctions and services for such offenders. (9) Establishing and maintaining
  a system of juvenile records designed to promote public safety. (10) Establishing
  and maintaining interagency information-sharing programs that enable the
  juvenile and criminal justice systems, schools, and social services agencies to
  make more informed decisions regarding the early identification, control,
  supervision, and treatment of juveniles who repeatedly commit serious
