  delinquent or criminal acts. (11) Establishing and maintaining accountability-     
  based programs designed to reduce recidivism amount juveniles who are referred     
  by law referred by law enforcement personnel or agencies. (12) Establishing and    
  maintaining programs to conduct risk and needs assessments of juvenile             
  offenders that facilitate effective early intervention and the provision of        
  comprehensive services, including mental health screening and treatment and        
  substance abuse testing and treatment, to such offenders. (13) Establishing and    
  maintaining accountability-based programs that are designed to enhance school      
  safety. (14) Establishing and maintaining restorative justice programs. (15)       
  Establishing and maintaining programs to enable juvenile courts and juvenile       
  probation officers to be more effective and efficient in holding juvenile          
  offenders accountable and reducing recidivism. (16) Hiring detention and           
  corrections personnel and establishing and maintaining training programs for       
  such personnel, to improve facility practices and programming. (17)                
  Establishing, improving and coordinating pre-release and post-release systems      
  and programs to facilitate the successful reentry of juvenile offenders from state 
  and local custody in the community. Funds in the amount of $3,948,912 are          
  available to support research, evaluation, and demonstration projects consistent   
  with this program. Input will be solicited from the States to determine which of   
  the 17 areas are most important and where the greatest needs are. This             
  information will guide and provide insight for research, evaluation, and           
  demonstration activities under this program. Training and technical assistance     
  funds, in the amount of $987,228, are available to support the 17 program areas    
  targeted by the JABG Program.                                                      
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Each State and territory (except Palau) is eligible to receive an allocation and   
  award of funds for State and units of local government if the Governor certifies-, 
  consistent with guidelines established by the Attorney General.                    
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  All States and territories are eligible to receive an allocation and award of funds
  for State and units of local government. Funds are available to public and         
  private agencies, organizations, or individuals to apply for discretionary and     
  training and technical assistance funds.                                           
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Each applicant must submit a completed application, including signed               
  assurances that it will comply with statutory and administrative requirements.     
  For Research and Evaluation grants, costs will be determined in accordance with    
  OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments.                             
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372. E.O. 12372 requires       
  applicants from State and local units of government or other organizations         
  providing services within a State to submit a copy of the application to the State 
  Single Points of Contact (SPOC), if one exists. Research and evaluation grants     
  are excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                                       
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Applicants must submit completed applications via the Office of Justice            
  Programs, Grants Management System. The receipt, review and analysis of            
  applications will follow Office of Justice Programs policies and procedures for    
  the administration of grant applications. The Demonstration Program Division is    
  subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110 and the Common Rule.           
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  A letter with copies of the grant award are sent to the applicant agency upon      
  approval by the Office of Justice Programs. One copy of the grant award must be    
  signed by the authorized official and returned to the Office of Justice Programs.  
  Local units of government will receive JABG funds through the applicant            
  agency subgrant award process. Each State and territory that receives monies       
                                                                                     
  under the JABG program must establish an interest-bearing trust fund to deposit

                                                                                     
  program funds. Each State and territory (recipient) or unit of local government

                                                                                     
  (subrecipient) that receives program funds must establish a coordinated

                                                                                     
  enforcement plan for reducing juvenile crime, developed by an Advisory Board.

                                                                                     
Deadlines:

                                                                                     
  Consult the Application Kit or contact the State Relations and Assistance

                                                                                     
  Division, Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention, Office of

                                                                                     
  Justice Programs; Telephone: (202) 307-5924 for application deadlines.

                                                                                     
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

                                                                                     
  Formula grant applications will generally be approved within 30 to 45 days of

                                                                                     
  receipt of a complete application. Discretionary grant applications generally

  take 2 to 4 months.

Appeals:                                                                             
  Hearing and appeal procedures will follow 28 CFR, Part 18, of the Department       
  of Justice Regulations.                                                            
Renewals:                                                                            
  Renewals are subject to appropriations.                                            
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Public Law 107-273 allocates 0.5 percent of the appropriated amount for each       
  State and territory and of the total funds remaining, allocates to each State an   
  amount that bears the same ratio as the population of people under the age of 18   
  living in each State for the most recent calendar year in which the data is        
  available. The Program requires a cash match of 10 percent of total program        
  costs; Federal funds may not exceed 90 percent of total program costs. (Each



                                                                                11-08
  State and territory that receives money under the JABG program must establish
  an interest-bearing trust fund to deposit program funds.) Interest derived from
  the award does not have to be matched, but interest generated from the trust fund
  cannot be used to match the Federal award. Matching contributions need not be
  applied at the exact time or in proportion to the obligation of Federal funds.
  However, the full match amount must be obligated by the end of the 36 month
  project period. For discretionary grants, no match is required.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Formula grant awards are made for 36 months; discretionary grants are generally
  for 1 to 3 years.
Reports:
  Quarterly financial, annual, and semiannual progress reports are required.
Audits:
  All organizations that expend financial assistance of $300,000 or more in any
  fiscal year must have a single audit for that year in accordance with OMB
  Circular No. A-133, as described in OJP's Financial Guide, Chapter 19. In
  accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, (Revised, June 24,
  1997), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that Expend financial assistance of $300,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $300,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for the year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  In accordance with the requirement set forth in 28 CFR, Parts 66 and 70,
  grantees must maintain all financial reports and other supporting documents
  pertinent to the award for at least 3 years following the close of the most recent
  audit.
Account Identification:
  15-0404-0-1-754 and 15-0405-0-1-754.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $49,361,000; FY 08 $51,700,000; and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  None.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  OJJDP's National Training and Technical Assistance Center (NTTAC) serves as
  the national training and technical assistance provider for the JABG program to
  ensure that comprehensive support is available to states and units of local
  government. SRAD is working with the Designated State Agencies (DSAs) to
  help assure the timely award of allocations to Units of local government, and
  where appropriate approve waiver requests to retain a percentage of funds at the
  State level equal to the State's level of primary financial burden for the
  administration of juvenile justice within the twelve program purpose areas.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  OJP Financial Guide.
Regional or Local Office:
  Gregory Thompson, Associate Administrator, State Relations and Assistance
  Division, Telephone: (202) 307-5924, or Thomas Murphy, Program Manager;
  Telephone: (202) 353-8734; and Jeff Slowikowski, Associate Administrator,
  Demonstration Programs Division, Telephone: (202) 616-3646.
Headquarters Office:
  Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention, Office of Justice
  Programs, Department of Justice, 810 7th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20531.
  Contact State Relations and Assistance Division; Telephone: (202) 307-5924.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.usdoj.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  In addition to the FY 2007 Block Grant awrds, funds were awarded to several
  tribal entities and a tribal training and technical assistance provider to enhance
  OJJDP's effort to provide funds to Indian Country. Additionally, an award was
  made to the National Training and Technical Assistance Center.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Criteria is established by the Juvenile Accountability Block Grants (JABG) FY
  2002 Guidance Manual as established by the Office of Juvenile Justice and
  Delinquency Prevention.
16.524 LEGAL ASSISTANCE FOR VICTIMS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE ON VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN, DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Violence Against Women Act of 2000, Section 1201, 42 U.S.C. 3796gg-6, as
  amended; Violence Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization
  Act of 2005, Title I, Section 103, Public Law 109-162.
OBJECTIVES:
  These grants are for increasing the availability of civil and criminal legal
  services to victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and
  stalking in matters arising from the abuse or violence. The goal is to develop
                                                                                   563
