  innovative, collaborative programs within the legal system that promote victim        
  safety and increase victim economic autonomy.                                         
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                    
  Project Grants (Discretionary).                                                       
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                              
  The Legal Assistance for Victims Grant Program provides an opportunity for            
  communities to enhance legal assistance for victims. Funds may be used: (1) to        
  implement, expand, and establish cooperative efforts and projects between             
  domestic violence, dating viiolence, and sexual assault victim services               
  organizations and legal assistance providers to provide legal assistance for          
  victims of domestic violence, dating violence, stalking, and sexual assault; (2) to   
  implement, expand, and establish efforts and projects to provide legal assistance     
  for victims of domestic violence, dating violence, stalking, and sexual assault by    
  organizations with a demonstrated history of providing direct legal or advocacy       
  services on behalf of these victims; and (3) to provide training, technical           
  assistance, and data collection to improve the capacity of grantees and other         
  entities to offer legal assistance to victims of domestic violence, dating violence,  
  stalking, and sexual assault.                                                         
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                  
  Eligible grantees for this program are private, nonprofit entities, Indian tribal     
  governments and tribal organizations, territorial organizations, and publicly         
  funded organizations not acting in their governmental capacity, such as law           
  schools.                                                                              
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                
  Beneficiaries include public or private nonprofit entities providing legal            
  assistance primarily to victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, and or          
  stalking.                                                                             
Credentials/Documentation:                                                              
  Grantees must certify that any person providing legal assistance has completed        
  or will complete training that was developed with a domestic violence, dating         
  violence, stalking, or sexual assault coalition or program and that the grantee's     
  policies do not require mediation or counseling of offenders and victims              
  together. Grantees must also verify that any person or organization providing         
  legal assistance has informed and will continue to inform State, local, or tribal     
  domestic violence or sexual assault programs and coalitions and appropriate           
  State, territorial, tribal, and local law enforcement of their work.                  
Preapplication Coordination:                                                            
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental            
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office designated        
  as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information on the        
  process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State    
  has selected the program for review. Application forms furnished by the Federal       
  agency, in accordance with 28 CFR Part 66 (Common Rule), must be used for             
  this program.                                                                         
Application Procedure:

  Applicants must apply online through the grants.gov portal. The receipt, review,      
  and analysis of application will follow Office on Violence Against Women              
  policies and procedures for the administration of grant applications. This

  program is subject to provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110.

                                                                                        
Award Procedure:                                                                        
  Upon approval by the Office on Violence Against Women, online notification is         
  sent to the applicant agency with copies of the Grant Award. One copy of the          
  Grant Award must be signed electronically by an authorized official and               
  returned to the Office of Justice Programs.                                           
Deadlines:                                                                              
  Contact the Office on Violence Against Women for application deadlines.               
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                     
  Applicants will be notified by the end of the fiscal year.                            
Appeals:                                                                                
  None.                                                                                 
Renewals:                                                                               
  Continuation grant awards are competitively selected and determined on a case-        
  by-case basis.                                                                        
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                      
  This is not a formula grant program. Grants will be made for amounts up to 100        
  percent of the costs of the project contained in the approved applications.           
  Matching is not required for this grant program; however applicants are               
  encouraged to maximize the impact of Federal grant dollars by contributing to         
  the costs of their projects. Supplemental contributions may be cash, in-kind          
  services, or a combination of both.                                                   
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                  
  Up to 24 months. Funds are released on an as-needed basis to the grantee.             
Reports:                                                                                
  Semi-annual progress reports, quarterly financial reports, and a final report are     
  required, as stipulated in the effective edition of M7100.1, Financial and            
  Administrative Guide for Grants. Progress reports should explain the activities       
  carried out and include an assessment of the effectiveness of those activities in     
  achieving the purposes of the program, including number of persons served and         
  numbers of persons seeking services who could not be served.                          
Audits:                                                                                 


564                                                                               11-08

  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  24, 1997), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organization,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  The award recipient must keep complete records on disposition of funds.
Account Identification:
  15-0409-0-1-754.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $32,201,088; FY 08 est $27,897,281; and FY 09 est
  $19,528,097.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $138,000 to $600,000; $416,377.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  FY 07: Applications: 277, Awards: 71; FY 08: Applications: 242, Awards: 66;
  FY 09: est. Applications: 242, Awards: 46.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  OJP Financial Guide is applicable. Legal Assistance for Victims Grantee Policy
  Guidebook.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Office on Violence Against Women, Department of Justice, 800 K Street, N.W.,
  Washington, DC 20530; Telephone: (202) 307-6026.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ovw.usdoj.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  16.588, Violence Against Women Formula Grants; 16.589, Rural Domestic
  Violence, Dating Violence, Sexual Assault, and Stalking Assistance Program;
  16.590, Grants to Encourage Arrest Policies and Enforcement of Protection
  Orders; 16.587, Violence Against Women Discretionary Grants for Indian Tribal
  Governments.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Direct legal services (e.g., representation in protection order, family law, or
  housing matters) for victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual
  assault and stalking; law school clinical programs and curricula on domestic
  violence; projects that establish partnerships between local domestic violence or
  sexual assault programs and legal services providers.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Criteria are established by the Office on Violence Against Women and are
  included in an annual Application Kit.
16.525 GRANTS TO REDUCE DOMESTIC VIOLENCE,
DATING VIOLENCE, SEXUAL ASSAULT, AND STALKING
ON CAMPUS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE ON VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN, DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
AUTHORIZATION:
  The Violence Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of
  2005, Title III, Section 304, Pub. L. No. 109-162, 42 U.S.C. 14045b.
OBJECTIVES:
  To develop and strengthen effective security and investigation strategies to
  combat domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking on
  campuses, and to develop and strengthen victim services in cases involving such
  crimes against women on campuses, which may include partnerships with local
  criminal justice authorities and community-based victim services agencies.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Discretionary).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds may be used for one or more of the following statutory program purpose
  areas: (1) To provide personnel, training, technical assistance, data collection,
  and other equipment with respect to the increased apprehension, investigation,
  and adjudication of persons committing domestic violence, dating violence,
  sexual assault, and stalking on campus. (2) To develop and implement campus
  policies, protocols, and services that more effectively identify and respond to
  crimes of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking, and to
  train campus administrators, campus security personnel, and personnel serving
  on campus disciplinary or judicial boards on such policies, protocols, and
  services.(3) To implement and operate education programs for the prevention of
  domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking. (4) To develop,
  enlarge, or strengthen victim services programs on the campuses of the
  institutions involved, including programs providing legal, medical, or
  psychological counseling, for victims of domestic violence, dating violence,
  sexual assault, and stalking, and to improve delivery of victim assistance on
  campus. To the extent practicable, such an institution shall collaborate with any
  entities carrying out nonprofit and other victim services programs, including
