  domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking victim services    
  programs in the community in which the institution is located. If appropriate       
  victim services programs are not available in the community or are not              
  accessible to students, the institution shall, to the extent practicable, provide a 
  victim services program on campus or create a victim services program in            
  collaboration with a community-based organization. The institution shall use not    
  less than 20 percent of the funds made available through the grant for a victim     
  services program provided in accordance with this paragraph. (5) To create,         
  disseminate, or otherwise provide assistance and information about victims'         
  options on and off campus to bring disciplinary or other legal action, including    
  assistance to victims in immigration matters. (6) To develop, install, or expand    
  data collection and communication systems, including computerized systems,          
  linking campus security to the local law enforcement for the purpose of             
  identifying and tracking arrests, protection orders, violations of protection       
  orders, prosecutions, and convictions with respect to the crimes of domestic        
  violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking on campus. (7) To           
  provide capital improvements (including improved lighting and communications        
  facilities but not including the construction of buildings) on campuses to address  
  the crimes of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking.     
  (8) To support improved coordination among campus administrators, campus            
  security personnel, and local law enforcement to reduce domestic violence,          
  dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking on campus.                            
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Institutions of higher education as defined under the Higher Education              
  Amendments of 1998 that are in compliance with the campus crime reporting           
  requirements set forth in 20 U.S.C. 1092 (f) as amended by Public Law 105-244,      
  112 Stat. 1581, Sec. 486 (e) (1998). A consortia of institutions of higher          
  education may also apply for these grants provided that each individual             
  consortium member is also eligible to apply.                                        
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Institutions of higher education.                                                   
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Applicants must certify that they are in compliance with the campus crime           
  reporting requirements set forth in 20 U.S.C. 1092 (f) as amended by Public Law     
  105-244, 112 Stat. 1581, Sec. 486 (e) (1998) In addition, applicants must meet      
  the following minimum requirements: 1) Collaborate with at least one nonprofit,     
  nongovernmental victim services agency within the community and criminal            
                                                                                      
  justice or civil legal agencies 2) Create a coordinated community response to

                                                                                      
  violence against women on campus 3) Establish a mandatory intervention and

                                                                                      
  education campaign for all incoming students 4) Train campus police to respond

                                                                                      
  effectively to domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking 5)

                                                                                      
  Train members of campus disciplinary boards to respond effectively to charges

                                                                                      
  of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking.

                                                                                      
Preapplication Coordination:

                                                                                      
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental

                                                                                      
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official

                                                                                      
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information

                                                                                      
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the

                                                                                      
  State has selected the program for review. Application forms furnished by the

                                                                                      
  Federal agency, in accordance with 28 CFR, Part 66 (Common Rule) must be

                                                                                      
  used for this program.

                                                                                      
Application Procedure:

                                                                                      
  Applicants must apply through the on-line grants.gov portal. The receipt, review,

                                                                                      
  and analysis of applications will follow Office on Violence Against Women

                                                                                      
  policies and procedures for the administration of grant applications. This

                                                                                      
  program is subject to provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110.

                                                                                      
Award Procedure:

                                                                                      
  Upon approval by the Office on Violence Against Women, an electronic

  notification will be sent to the applicant agency with copies of the Grant Award.

  One copy of the Grant Award must be signed by an authorized official and            
  returned to the Office of Justice Programs.

                                                                                      
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Contact the Office on Violence Against Women for application deadlines.             
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Applicants will be notified by the end of the fiscal year.

                                                                                      
Appeals:

                                                                                      
  None.

                                                                                      
Renewals:

                                                                                      
  Renewals are considered on a case-by-case basis and competitively selected.

                                                                                      
Formula and Matching Requirements:

  Grants will be made for amounts up to 100 percent of the costs of the programs      
  or projects contained in the approved applications. Matching is not required for    
  this grant program; however, applicants are encouraged to maximize the impact       
  of Federal grant dollars by contributing to the costs of their projects.            
  Supplemental contributions may be cash, in-kind services, or a combination of       
  both.                                                                               
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Up to 3 years. Funds are released on an as needed basis to the grantee.             
Reports:                                                                              
  Each grantee receiving funds under this Subpart shall submit semi-annual            


                                                                                11-08 
  progress reports. Upon completion of the grant period, the institution shall file a
  performance report explaining the activities carried out and including an
  assessment of the effectiveness of those activities in achieving the purposes of
  the program. In addition, grantee must provide the Office on Violence Against
  annual statistics on the numbers of victims served, gender, ethnicity, relationship
  to offender, type of victimization, language, disability, and the number of
  victims seeking services who were turned away for services. Grantees must also
  submit quarterly financial reports.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  The award recipient must keep complete and accurate records on disposition of
  funds.
Account Identification:
  15-0409-0-1-754.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $8,432,311; FY 08 est $6,537,812; and FY 09 est. $4,576,468.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $178,709 - $499,999; $311,324.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  FY 2007 Applications: 117; Awards: 17; FY 08: Applications: 131, Awards: 21;
  FY 09: est. Applications: 131, Awards: 15.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  OJP Financial Guide is applicable.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Office on Violence Against Women Office, Department of Justice, 800 K Street,
  NW., Washington, DC 20530. Telephone: (202) 307-6026.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ovw.usdoj.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  16.588, Violence Against Women Formula Grants; 16.589, Rural Domestic
  Violence, Dating Violence, Sexual Assault, and Stalking Assistance Program;
  16.590, Grants to Encourage Arrest Policies and Enforcement of Protection
  Orders; 16.587, Violence Against Women Discretionary Grants for Indian Tribal
  Governments.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Examples of previously funded activities include: creating a sexual assault and
  domestic violence community task force, which includes representatives from
  campus and community organizations, as well as local police and victim services
  agencies; educating resident assistants, incoming students, sorority and fraternity
  members, athletes and university staff about violence against women and
  consequences for offenders; training for student health center doctors and nurses
  and Medical Center emergency room staff on responding to domestic violence;
  training campus judicial board members on violence against women; training
  campus and local law enforcement on responding to and investigating violence
  against women on campus; and providing prevention education to incoming
  students.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Criteria are established by Violence Against Women and Department of Justice
  Reauthorization Act of 2005 and published program guidelines.
16.526 OVW TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE INITIATIVE
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE ON VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN, DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Violence Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of
  2005, Public Law 109-162, Section 3(a), 42 U.S.C. 13925(b)(11).
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide communities with critical resources that help them forge partnerships
  across agencies and disciplines to respond effectively to violent crimes against
  women. OVW's Technical Assistance Program was created to provide grantees
  with the expertise and support they need to develop and implement successful
  local projects, increase victim safety, and bolster offender accountability.
  Grantees participate in educational initiatives, conferences, peer-to- peer
  consultations, and targeted assistance that allow them to learn from experts and
  one another about how to overcome obstacles and incorporate promising
  practices in their efforts to address violence against women. In addition, the
  Technical Assistance Program focuses on building the capacity of national
  criminal justice and victim advocacy organizations to effectively address violent
  crimes against women and examine issues of special interest to OVW and its
  constituents.
                                                                                   565
