TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                            
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  OVW funds a constellation of technical assistance projects to support the           
  activities of its grantees and to forge partnerships among organizations that have  
  not traditionally worked together to address domestic violence, dating violence,    
  sexual assault, or stalking. Grantees learn from national experts and each other    
  how best to develop and implement locally responsive programs. OVW                  
  encourages applicants to the Technical Assistance Program to design                 
  educational initiatives that are interactive and experiential and that seek to      
  change values and attitudes that have traditionally prevented victim advocates      
  and criminal justice professionals from responding effectively to sexual assault,   
  domestic violence, dating violence, and stalking. Applicants proposing              
  education programs must detail the adult education methods they will use to         
  promote new insight, knowledge, skills, and abilities in the individuals with       
  whom they propose to work.                                                          
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Eligible applicants are organizations or individuals partnered with organizations.  
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Beneficiaries are organizations or individuals partnered with organizations.        
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State         
  and local governments, and OMB Circular No. A-110 for Institutions of Higher        
  Education, Hospitals and Other Nonprofit Organizations.                             
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental          
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official

  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information  
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the

  State has selected the program for review. Application forms furnished by the       
  Federal agency, in accordance with 28 CFR, Part 66 (Common Rule) must be            
  used for this program.

Application Procedure:                                                                
  Applicants must apply through the on-line grants.gov portal. The receipt,           
  review, and analysis of applications will follow Office on Violence Against         
  Women policies and procedures for the administration of grant applications.         
  This program is subject to provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110.                    
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Upon approval by the Office on Violence Against Women, online notification is       
  sent to the applicant agency with copies of the Grant Award. One copy of the        
  Grant Award must be signed electronically by an authorized official and             
  returned to the Office of Justice Programs.                                         
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Contact the Office on Violence Against Women for application deadlines.             
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Applicants will be notified by the end of the fiscal year.                          
Appeals:                                                                              
  No statutory rights of appeal.                                                      
Renewals:                                                                             
  Renewals are considered on a case-by-case basis.                                    
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Grants will be made for amounts up to 100 percent of the costs of the projects      
  contained in the approved applications. Matching is not required for this grant.    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Up to 24 months. Funds are released on an as needed basis to the grantee.           
Reports:                                                                              
  Each grantee receiving funds under this program shall submit semi-annual            
  progress reports. Upon completion of the grant period, the institution shall file a 
  performance report explaining the activities carried out and including an           
  assessment of the effectiveness of those activities in achieving the purposes of    
  the program. Grantees are also required to submit quarterly financial reports.      
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June         
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"      
  nonfederal entities that receive financial assistance of $500,000 or more in        
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that    
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal          
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted    
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                              
Records:                                                                              
  The award recipient must keep complete records on disposition of funds.             
Account Identification:                                                               
  15-0409-0-1-754.

                                                                                      
Obligations:

                                                                                      
  (Grants) FY 07 $14,107,409; FY 08 est $12,734,568; and FY 09 est $8,914,198.

                                                                                      
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

                                                                                      
  $20,000 to $1,500,000; $318,364.

                                                                                      
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

  FY 07: Applicants: 188, Awards: 57; FY 08: Applicants: 41, Awards: 41; FY 09        
  est: Applicants: 41, Awards: 41.                                                    
                                                                                      
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

566                                                                             11-08

  OJP Financial Guide is applicable.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Office on Violence Against Women, Department of Justice, 800 K Street, N.W.,
  Washington, DC 20530; Telephone: (202) 307-6026.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ovw.usdoj.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  16.524, Legal Assistance for Victims; 16.525, Grants to Reduce Domestic
  Violence, Dating Violence, Sexual Assault, and Stalking on Campus; 16.587,
  Violence Against Women Discretionary Grants for Indian Tribal Governments;
  16.588, Violence Against Women Formula Grants; 16.589, Rural Domestic
  Violence, Dating Violence, Sexual Assault, and Stalking Assistance Program;
  16.590, Grants to Encourage Arrest Policies and Enforcement of Protection
  Orders.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  OVW's TA projects have offered educational opportunities, conferences, peer-to-
  peer consultations, site visits, and tailored assistance that has allowed grantees
  and others to learn from experts and one another about how to effectively
  respond to crimes of violence against women.plement the Peaceful Families
  Project, designed to provide culturally appropriate assistance to victims of
  domestic violence, sexual assault, and stalking in the Muslim communities.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Criteria are established by the Office on Violence Against Women and are
  included in an annual Call for Concept Papers.
16.527 SUPERVISED VISITATION, SAFE HAVENS FOR
CHILDREN
   (Supervised Visitation)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE ON VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN, DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of 2000; Public Law 106-
  386, Sec. 1301, as amended; 42 U.S.C. 10420; Violence Against Women and
  Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005, Title III, Section 306, Public
  Law 109-162.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide an opportunity for communities to support supervised visitation and
  safe exchange of children, in situations involving domestic violence, dating
  violence, child abuse, sexual assault, or stalking.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grants are available for one or more of the following statutory purposes: (1) to
  provide supervised visitation and safe visitation exchange of children by and
  between parents in situations involving domestic violence, dating violence, child
  abuse, sexual assault, or stalking; (2) to protect children from the trauma of
  witnessing domestic or dating violence or experiencing abduction, injury, or
  death during parent and child visitation exchanges; (3) to protect parents or
  caretakers who are victims of domestic and dating violence from experiencing
  further violence, abuse, and threats during child visitation exchanges; and (4) to
  protect children from the trauma of experiencing sexual assault or other forms of
  physical assault or abuse during parent and child visitation and visitation
  exchanges.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible applicants are States, Indian tribal governments, and units of local
  government.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Beneficiaries include public and private nonprofit entities that provide
  supervised visitation and safe exchange of children.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants must demonstrate expertise in the area of family violence, including
  the areas of domestic violence or sexual assault, as appropriate; ensure that any
  fees charged to individuals for use of programs and services are based on the
  income of those individuals, unless otherwise provided by court order;
  demonstrate that adequate security measures, including adequate facilities,
  procedures, and personnel capable of preventing violence, are in place for the
  operation of supervised visitation programs and services or safe visitation
  exchange; and prescribe standards by which the supervised visitation or safe
  visitation exchange will occur. In addition, all applicants are required to enter
  into a collaborative working relationship with state or local courts and a
  nonprofit, nongovernmental victim services provider in the local community to
  be served, such as the State or tribal domestic violence coalition, State or tribal
  sexual assault coalition, local shelters, and programs for domestic violence and
  sexual assault victims.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
