  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official    
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information

  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review. Application forms furnished by the      
  Federal agency, in accordance with 28 CFR Part 66 (Common Rule), must be           
  used for this program.                                                             
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Applicants must apply through the on-line grants.gov portal. The receipt, review,  
  and analysis of application will follow Office on Violence Against Women           
  policies and procedures for the administration of grant applications. This         
  program is subject to provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110.                        
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Upon approval by the Office on Violence Against Women, online notification is      
  sent to the applicant agency with copies of the Grant Award. One copy of the       
  Grant Award must be signed electronically by an authorized official and            
  returned to the Office of Justice Programs.                                        
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Contact the Office on Violence Against Women for application deadlines.            
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Applicants will be notified by the end of the fiscal year.                         
Appeals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  Renewals are considered on a case-by-case basis.                                   
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Grants will be made for amounts up to 100 percent of the costs of the programs     
  or projects contained in the approved applications. Match is not required for this 
  grant program; however, applicants are encouraged to maximize the impact of        
  Federal grant dollars by contributing to the costs of their projects. Supplemental 
  contributions may be cash, in-kind services, or a combination of both.             
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Length of assistance is provided in an annual application kit. Funds are released  
  on an as-needed basis to the grantee.                                              
Reports:                                                                             
  Semi-annual progress reports, quarterly financial reports, and a final report are  
  required, as stipulated in the program regulations and the effective edition of the
  OJP Financial Guide. Progress reports should explain the activities carried out    
  and include an assessment of the effectiveness of those activities in achieving    
  the purposes of the program.                                                       
Audits:                                                                              
  Nonfederal entities that expend $500,000 or more in Federal funds (from all        
  sources, including pass-through sub-awards) in the organization's fiscal year      
  shall have a single organization-wide audit conducted in accordance with the       
  provisions of OMB Circular A-133. The audit report is due to the Federal Audit     
  Clearinghouse not later than nine months after the end of the recipient's fiscal   
  year.                                                                              
Records:                                                                             
  The award recipient must keep complete records on disposition of funds.            
Account Identification:                                                              
  15-0409-0-1-754.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Grants) FY 07 $10,434,453; FY 08 est $11,268,417; and FY 09 est $7,887,892.       
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  $200,000 to $546,000; $321,955.                                                    
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  FY 07: Applications: 93, Awards: 33; FY 08: Applications: 88, Awards: 29; FY       
  09 est: Applications: 88, Awards: 20.                                              
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  The OJP Financial Guide is applicable.                                             
Regional or Local Office:

                                                                                     
  None.

                                                                                     
Headquarters Office:

                                                                                     
  Office on Violence Against Women, Department of Justice, 800 K Street, N.W.,

                                                                                     
  Washington, DC 20530. Telephone: (202) 307-6026.

                                                                                     
Web Site Address:

                                                                                     
  http://www.ovw.usdoj.gov.

                                                                                     
RELATED PROGRAMS:

                                                                                     
  16.588, Violence Against Women Formula Grants; 16.587, Violence Against

                                                                                     
  Women Discretionary Grants for Indian Tribal Governments; 16.590, Grants to

                                                                                     
  Encourage Arrest Policies and Enforcement of Protection Orders.

                                                                                     
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  Grantees provide supervised visitation services and safe exchange of children by   
  and between parents in cases involving domestic violence, dating violence,         
  sexual assault, stalking, or child abuse.                                          
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Criteria are established by the Office on Violence Against Women and included      
  in an annual Application Kit.                                                      
                                                                                     
16.528 ENHANCED TRAINING AND SERVICES TO END                                         
VIOLENCE AND ABUSE OF WOMEN LATER IN LIFE                                            


                                                                                11-08
   (Elder Abuse, Neglect, and Exploitation)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE ON VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN, DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protections Act of 2000; Public Law 106-
  386; 42 U.S.C. 14041a; Violence Against Women and Department fo Justice
  Reauthorization Act or 2005, Public Law 109-162, section 205(a).
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide training, services, and collaboration to address the needs of victims
  of elder abuse, neglect, and exploitation, including domestic violence, dating
  violence, sexual assault, and stalking, who are 50 years of age or older.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grants may be used for the following statutory purposes: (1) training programs
  to assist law enforcement, prosecutors, governmental agencies, victim assistants,
  and relevant officers of Federal, State, tribal, territorial, and local courts in
  recognizing, addressing, investigating, and prosecuting instances of elder abuse,
  neglect, and exploitation, including domestic violence, dating violence, and
  sexual assault, or stalking against victims who are 50 years of age or older; (2)
  providing or enhancing services for victims of elder abuse, neglect, and
  exploitation, including domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or
  stalking, who are 50 years of age or older; (3) creating or supporting
  multidisciplinary collaborative community responses to victims of elder abuse,
  neglect, and exploitation, including domestic violence, dating violence, sexual
  assault, and stalking, who are 50 years of age or older; and (4) conducting cross-
  training for victim service organizations, governmental agencies, courts, law
  enforcement, and nonprofit, nongovernmental organizations serving victims of
  elder abuse, neglect, and exploitation, including domestic violence, dating
  violence, sexual assault, and stalking, who are 50 years of age or older.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible applicants include States, tribal governments, units of local government,
  and nonprofit, nongovernmental victim services organizations with
  demonstrated experience in assisting elderely women or demonstrated
  experience in addressing domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and
  stalking.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Beneficiaries include States, tribal governments, units of local government, and
  nonprofit, nongovernmental victim services organizations with demonstrated
  experience in assisting elderly women or demonstrated experience in addressing
  domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State
  and local governments, and OMB Circular No. A-110 for Institutions of Higher
  Education, Hospitals and Other Nonprofit Organizations.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review. Application forms furnished by the
  Federal agency, in accordance with 28 CFR, Part 66 (Common Rule), must be
  used for this program.
Application Procedure:
  Applicants must apply through the on-line grants.gov portal. The receipt,
  review, and analysis of applications will follow Office on Violence Against
  Women policies and procedures for the administration of grant applications.
  This program is subject to provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110.
Award Procedure:
  Upon approval by the Office on Violence Against Women, a letter is sent to the
  applicant agency with copies of the Grant Award. One copy of the Grant Award
  must be signed by an authorized official and returned to the Office of Justice
  Programs.
Deadlines:
  Contact the Office on Violence Against Women for application deadlines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Applicants are notified by the end of the fiscal year.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Renewals are considered on a case-by-case basis.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Grants are made for amounts up to 100 percent of the costs of the programs or
  projects contained in the approved applications. Match is not required for this
  grant program; however, applicants are encouraged to maximize the impact of
  Federal grant dollars by contributing to the costs of their projects. Supplemental
  contributions may be cash, in-kind services, or a combination of both.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Up to 36 months for new recipients; up to 24 months for continuation recipients.
                                                                                    567
