   Funds are released on an as-needed basis to the grantee.                           
Reports:                                                                              
  Semi-annual progress and quarterly financial reports are required, as stipulated    
  in the effective edition of the OJP Financial Guide. Upon completion of the         
  grant period, grantees shall file a performance report explaining the activities    
  carried out and including an assessment of the effectiveness of those activities in 
  achieving the purposes of the program.                                              
Audits:                                                                               
  Nonfederal entities that expend $500,000 or more in Federal funds (from all         
  sources, including pass-through sub-awards) in the organization's fiscal year       
  shall have a single organization-wide audit conducted in accordance with the        
  provisions of OMB Circular A-133. The audit report is due to the Federal Audit      
  Clearinghouse not later than nine months after the end of the recipient's fiscal    
  year.                                                                               
Records:                                                                              
  The award recipient must keep complete records on disposition of funds.             
Account Identification:                                                               
  15-0409-0-1-754.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Grants) FY 07 $3,468,729; FY 08 est $3,726,679; and FY 09 est $2,608,675.          
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  $150,000 to $500,000; $310,557.                                                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  FY 07: Applications: 35, Awards: 10; FY 08: Applications: 53, Awards: 10; FY        
  09 est: Applications: 53, Awards: 7.                                                
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  The OJP Financial Guide is applicable.

                                                                                      
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  None.

                                                                                      
Headquarters Office:

                                                                                      
  Office on Violence Against Women, Department of Justice, 800 K Street, NW.,

                                                                                      
  Washington, DC 20530. Telephone: (202) 307-6026.

                                                                                      
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.ovw.usdoj.gov .

                                                                                      
RELATED PROGRAMS:

                                                                                      
  16.588, Violence Against Women Formula Grants; 16.587, Violence Against

                                                                                      
  Women Discretionary Grants for Indian Tribal Governments; 16.590, Grants to

                                                                                      
  Encourage Arrest Policies and Enforcement of Protection Orders; 16.529,

                                                                                      
  Education, Training, and Enhanced Services to End Violence Against and Abuse

                                                                                      
  of Women with Disabilities.

                                                                                      
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

                                                                                      
  Specialized trainings for prosecutors and investigators on interviewing elder

                                                                                      
  abuse victims with cognitive and/or communication impairments and on

                                                                                      
  forensic wound identification. Educating county law enforcement and

                                                                                      
  prosecutors regarding the unique obstacles encountered by older victims of

                                                                                      
  domestic violence, sexual assault, and neglect. Developing training materials on

                                                                                      
  mental and physical abuse, financial exploitation and domestic violence among

                                                                                      
  older individuals, in order to increase the identification, investigation and

                                                                                      
  prosecution of crimes against older individuals.

                                                                                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

                                                                                      
  Criteria are established by the Office on Violence Against Women and included

                                                                                      
  in an annual Application Kit.

                                                                                      
                                                                                      
16.529 EDUCATION, TRAINING, AND ENHANCED                                              
SERVICES TO END VIOLENCE AGAINST AND ABUSE OF                                         
                                                                                      
WOMEN WITH DISABILITIES                                                               
      (Disability Grant Program)                                                      
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  OFFICE ON VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN, DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protections Act of 2000, Sec. 1402, 42          
  U.S.C. 3796gg-7), as amended; Violence Against Women and Department of              
  Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005, Title II, Section 204, Pub. L. No. 109-162.    
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To provide training, consultation, and information on domestic violence, dating     
  violence, stalking, and sexual assault against individuals with disabilities (as    
  defined in section 3 of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C.      
  12102)); and to enhance direct services to such individuals.                        
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Grants awarded under this program shall be used for the following statutory         
  program purposes: (1) to provide personnel, training, technical assistance,         
  advocacy, intervention, risk reduction and prevention of domestic violence,         
  dating violence, stalking, and sexual assault against disabled individuals; (2) to  
  conduct outreach activities to ensure that disabled individuals who are victims of  
  domestic violence, dating violence, stalking, or sexual assault receive             
  appropriate assistance; (3) to conduct cross-training for victim service            


568                                                                             11-08

  organizations, governmental agencies, courts, law enforcement, and nonprofit,
  nongovernmental organizations serving individuals with disabilities about risk
  reduction, intervention, prevention and the nature of domestic violence, dating
  violence, stalking, and sexual assault for disabled individuals; (4) to provide
  technical assistance to assist with modifications to existing policies, protocols,
  and procedures to ensure equal access to the services, programs, and activities of
  victim service organizations for disabled individuals; (5) to provide training and
  technical assistance on the requirements of shelters and victim services
  organizations under Federal antidiscrimination laws, including: (A) the
  Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990; and (B) section 504 of the
  Rehabilitation Act of 1973; (6) to modify facilities, purchase equipment, and
  provide personnel so that shelters and victim service organizations can
  accommodate the needs of disabled individuals; (7) to provide advocacy and
  intervention services for disabled individuals who are victims of domestic
  violence, dating violence, stalking, or sexual assault; or (8) to develop model
  programs providing advocacy and intervention services within organizations
  serving disabled individuals who are victims of domestic violence, dating
  violence, sexual assault, or stalking. (Grants for this purpose may only be
  awarded to an eligible agency as defined in section 410 of the Rehabilitation Act
  of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 796f-5)).
Applicant Eligibility:
  States, units of local government, Indian tribal governments or tribal
  organizations, and nonprofit, nongovernmental victim services organizations,
  such as state domestic violence or sexual assault coalitions or nonprofit,
  nongovernmental organizations serving disabled individuals. For profit
  organizations and individuals are not eligible.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Beneficiaries include victim service agencies who respond to crime victims who
  are individuals with disabilities.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review. Application forms furnished by the
  Federal agency, in accordance with 28 CFR, Part 66 (Common Rule), must be
  used for this program.
Application Procedure:
  Applicants must apply through the on-line Grants.gov portal. The receipt,
  review, and analysis of application will follow Office on Violence Against
  Women policies and procedures for the administration of grant applications.
  This program is subject to provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110.
Award Procedure:
  Upon approval by the Office on Violence Against Women, online notification is
  sent to the applicant agency with copies of the Grant Award. One copy of the
  Grant Award must be signed electronically by an authorized official and
  returned to the Office of Justice Programs.
Deadlines:
  Contact the Office on Violence Against Women for application deadlines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Applicants will be notified by the end of the fiscal year.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Renewals are considered on a case-by-case basis.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Grants will be made for amounts up to 100 percent of the costs of the programs
  or projects contained in the approved applications. Match is not required for
  this grant program; however, applicants are encouraged to maximize the impact
  of Federal grant dollars by contributing to the costs of their projects.
  Supplemental contributions may be cash, in-kind services, or a combination of
  both.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Up to 3 years. Funds are released on an as-needed basis to the grantee.
Reports:
  Quarterly financial reports are required, as stipulated in the program regulations
  and the effective edition of the OJP Financial Guide. Grantees shall also file a
  semi-annual performance reports explaining the activities carried out and
  including an assessment of the effectiveness of those activities in achieving the
  purposes of the program as well as a final performance report.
Audits:
  Nonfederal entities that expend $500,000 or more in Federal funds (from all
  sources, including pass-through sub-awards) in the organization's fiscal year
  shall have a single organization-wide audit conducted in accordance with the
  provisions of OMB Circular A-133. The audit report is due to the Federal Audit
  Clearinghouse not later than 9 months after the end of the recipient's fiscal year.
Records:
  The award recipient must keep complete records on disposition of funds.
