Account Identification:                                                               
  15-0409-0-1-754.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Grants) FY 07 $7,497,863; FY 08 est $7,055,000; and FY 09 est $4,938,500.          
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  $600,000 - $600,000; $600,000.                                                      
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  FY 07: Applications: 47; Awards: 110; FY 08: Applications: 27, Awards: 7; FY        
  09: est. Applications: 27, Awards: 5.                                               
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  The OJP Financial Guide is applicable.                                              
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Office on Violence Against Women, Department of Justice, 800 K Street, NW.,         
  Washington, DC 20530. Telephone: (202) 307-6026.                                    
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.ovw.usdoj.gov .

                                                                                      
RELATED PROGRAMS:

                                                                                      
  16.588, Violence Against Women Formula Grants; 16.587, Violence Against

                                                                                      
  Women Discretionary Grants for Indian Tribal Governments; 16.590, Grants to

                                                                                      
  Encourage Arrest Policies and Enforcement of Protection Orders; 16.529,

                                                                                      
  Education, Training, and Enhanced Services to End Violence Against and Abuse

                                                                                      
  of Women with Disabilities.

                                                                                      
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

                                                                                      
  Examples include services for victims with disabilities and cross training for

                                                                                      
  victim service agencies, governmental agencies, courts, law enforcement, and

                                                                                      
  organizations serving people with disabilities.

                                                                                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

                                                                                      
  Criteria are established by the Office on Violence Against Women and included

                                                                                      
  in an annual Application Kit.

                                                                                      
                                                                                      
16.540 JUVENILE JUSTICE AND DELINQUENCY                                               
PREVENTION-ALLOCATION TO STATES                                                       
                                                                                      
   (State Formula Grants)                                                             
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  OFFICE OF JUVENILE JUSTICE AND DELINQUENCY PREVENTION,                              
  DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE                                                               
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act, Sections 221-223, 42 U.S.C.        
  Sections 5631-5633.                                                                 
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To increase the capacity of State and local governments to support the              
  development of more effective education, training, research, prevention,            
  diversion, treatment, accountability based sanctions, and rehabilitation programs   
  in the area of juvenile delinquency and programs to improve the juvenile justice    
  system.                                                                             
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Formula Grants; Project Grants.                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  This program, established by the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention

                                                                                      
  Act of 2002, allocates formula grant funds to States and territories on the basis   
  of their relative population under age 18. The minimum allocation to each State     
  is $600,000 and to the Territories is $100,000. States/Territories must             
  demonstrate compliance with four core requirements of the JJDP act in order to      
  receive their full allocation of Formula Grants funds. The core requirements are:   
  Section 223(a) (11) deinstitutionalization of status offenders; (12) separation of  
  adults and juveniles in secure custody; (13) removal of juveniles from adult jails  
  and lockups; and (22) the elimination of the disproportionate contact of minority   
  juveniles, where such conditions exist. The State's allocation will be reduced by   
  20 percent for each core requirement with which the State is in non-compliance.     
  Technical Assistance: Not in excess of two percent of the funds available each      
  fiscal year to formula grants is available for grants and contracts with public and 
  private agencies, organizations and individuals to provide assistance to States,    
  units of general local governments, and combinations thereof, and local private     
  agencies to facilitate compliance with Section 223 of the JJDP Act and              
  implementation of the State Plan approved by OJJDP. Technical assistance            
  provided under this provision must be coordinated with the State agencies           
  designated to implement the formula grants program. To be eligible for formula      
  grant funds, a State must submit electronically a comprehensive plan applicable     
  to a 3-year period embodying the purposes of the Act and including provisions       
  that: (1) provide for an advisory group appointed by the chief executive of the     
  State to carry out specified functions and to participate in the development and    
  review of the State's juvenile justice plan; (2) provide that juveniles who are     
  charged with or who have committed offenses that would not be criminal if           
  committed by an adult, or offenses which do not constitute violations of valid      
  court orders or such non-offenders as dependent and neglected children, are         
  removed from secure juvenile detention and secure correctional facilities; (3)      


                                                                                 11-08
  provide that juveniles alleged to be or found to be delinquent and youths within
  the purview of the deinstitutionalization core requirement not be confined or
  detained in any institution in which they have contact with adult persons
  incarcerated because they have been convicted of a crime or are awaiting trial on
  criminal charges; (4) provide that no juvenile shall be detained or confined in
  any jail or lockup for adults (with specified exceptions); and (5) provide for
  programs to eliminate the disproportionate contact of minority juveniles where
  such condition exists. Once the plan is approved, each State determines the
  specific programs to be funded. The States are responsible for processing
  applications for subgrants and administering funded projects. Two-thirds of
  funds must be passed through to units of general local government, private
  nonprofit agencies, and Indian Tribes performing law enforcement functions
  unless a waiver is granted.
Applicant Eligibility:
  The Chief Executive of each State which chooses to apply for a formula grant
  shall establish or designate a State agency as the sole agency for supervising the
  preparation and administration of the plan, in accordance with the Juvenile
  Justice and Delinquency (JJDP) Act of 2002. Technical Assistance: Grants and
  contracts may only be made to agencies, organizations and individuals that have
  experience in providing technical assistance to State agencies in implementing
  State plans, and in facilitating compliance with Section 223 of the JJDP Act,
  Public Law 102-586.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Units of a State and its local government, public and private organizations,
  Indian tribes performing law enforcement functions, and agencies involved in
  juvenile delinquency prevention, treatment, and rehabilitation.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State
  and local governments.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency, in
  accordance with 28 CFR, Part 66 (Common Rule), must be used for this
  program. An environmental impact assessment is necessary for this program to
  determine if an environmental impact statement is required. This program is
  eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal
  Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the
  single point of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the
  State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected
  the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Applicants must submit completed applications via the Office of Justice
  Programs, Grants Management System following established criteria. The
  receipt, review, and analysis of applications will follow Office of Justice
  Programs policies and procedures for the administration of grant applications.
Award Procedure:
  A letter with copies of the grant award and special conditions are sent to the
  applicant agency upon approval by the Office of Justice Programs. One copy of
  the grant award must be signed by the authorized official to the Office of Justice
  Programs.
Deadlines:
  Deadlines are included with the GMS instructions, appropriate Application Kits
  and Guideline Manuals, and other procedural guides.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Formula Grants Plans will generally be approved within 30 to 45 days of receipt
  of a complete application. Technical Assistance: Approval/disapproval time is
  provided on three levels (immediate response, total system response, and
  specialized, developmental response) from one to two hours to ten days.
Appeals:
  Hearings held by OJJDP. Technical assistance: Federal Acquisition Regulations
  apply.
Renewals:
  Comprehensive Plan submission required every 3 years. Annual updates and
  applications required each of the other 2 years. Technical Assistance: Contracts
  are renewed throughout contract modifications and competition processes.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Formula based on juvenile population. Grantees are required to provide dollar
  for dollar match on planning and administration funds. Action programs allow
  no match. At least 66 2/3 percent of the funds received by the State under
  Section 222(a) of the JJDP Act of 1974, must be "expended by" or "passed
  through to" programs of units of general local government, private nonprofit
  agencies, and Indian tribes performing law enforcement functions, insofar as
  they are consistent with the State Plan. This provision may be waived at the
  discretion of the OJJDP Administrator for any State depending upon the extent
  to which the services for delinquent or potentially delinquent youth are
  supported on a statewide basis.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Fiscal year action funds may be carried forward for obligation for 2 years
  subsequent to the fiscal year of award. Under a Letter of Credit, drawdowns
  may be made. Technical Assistance: Three year incremental contract is funded.
Reports:
                                                                                    569
