  Financial, subgrant data and others are required by effective edition of the OJP      
  Financial Guide on a monthly, quarterly, semi-annually, and/or annual basis, and      
  additional reporting requirements listed in OJJDP Guideline Manuals and other         
  procedural guides.                                                                    
Audits:                                                                                 
  All organizations that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in any         
  fiscal year must have a single audit for that year in accordance with OMB             
  Circular No. A-133, as amended, unless the audit condition on the award says          
  otherwise. These audits are due to the Office of the Comptroller and the Federal      
  Audit Clearinghouse no later than thirteen (13) months after the close of each        
  fiscal year during the term of the award (for fiscal years beginning on/after July    
  1, 1998, audit report packages are due nine (9) months after the close of the         
  fiscal year).                                                                         
Records:                                                                                
  Grantee must keep complete records on disposition of funds.                           
Account Identification:                                                                 
  15-0405-0-1-754.                                                                      
Obligations:                                                                            
  FY 07 $78,978,240; FY 08 $74,260,000; and FY 09 est. not available.                   
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                              
  Allocation of formula grants to States and territories are based on of relative       
  populations under 18.                                                                 
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                
  In fiscal year 2008, 55 out of 56 eligible States and territories participated in the 
  Formula Grant Program. All participating States and territories are required to       
  establish systems for monitoring jails, lockups and other facilities which may be     
  used to detain or incarcerate juveniles. Substantial progress has been made in        
  the removal of nonoffender juveniles from these institutions. All participating       
  States must collect data and initiate activities to eliminate the disproportionate    
  confinement of minority juveniles, where such conditions exist.                       
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                
  Regulations for Formula Grants (28 CFR Part 31) and OJP Financial Guide               
  applicable editions.                                                                  
Regional or Local Office:                                                               
  None.                                                                                 
Headquarters Office:                                                                    
  Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention, Department of Justice,         
  Washington, DC 20531. Contact: Gregory Thompson, Associate Administrator,             
  State Relations and Assistance Division. Telephone: (202) 307-5924. Use the           
  same number for FTS.                                                                  
Web Site Address:                                                                       
  http://www.ojjdp.ncjrs.org.                                                           
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                       
  16.541, Part E - Developing, Testing and Demonstrating Promising New                  
  Programs; 16.542, Part D - Research, Evaluation, Technical Assistance and             
  Training; 16.548, Title V_Delinquency Prevention Program; 16.549, Part                
  E_State Challenge Activities.                                                         
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                            
  Individual projects receive funding at the discretion of the responsible              
  designated State agencies. These include programs such as community-based             
  services for the prevention and control of juvenile delinquency, group homes and      
  halfway houses, screening and intake services to permit increased diversion from      
  juvenile court processes, law enforcement training, expanded use of probation         
  and training for related personnel, and those activities which would remove           
  status offenders from secure detention, separate juveniles from adults in             
  institutions where they have contact with incarcerated adults, or remove              
  juveniles from adult jails or lockups.                                                
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                       
  Criteria are established by the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act,      
  as amended, and the regulations governing the Formula Grant Program                   
  provisions of the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act as published        
  in the Federal Register.                                                              
                                                                                        
16.541 PART E - DEVELOPING, TESTING AND                                                 
                                                                                        
DEMONSTRATING PROMISING NEW PROGRAMS

                                                                                        
      (Program Grants, Discretionary Grants and Contracts)                              
                                                                                        
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                         
  OFFICE OF JUVENILE JUSTICE AND DELINQUENCY PREVENTION,                                
  DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE                                                                 
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                          
  Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974, Sections 261, 262,           
  Public Law 93-415, as amended; Public Laws 95-503, 95-115, 96-509, 98-473,            
  100-690, and 102-586, 42 U.S.C. 5601 et seq.                                          
OBJECTIVES:                                                                             
  To develop and implement programs that design, test, and demonstrate effective        
  approaches, techniques and methods for preventing and controlling juvenile            
  delinquency such as community based- alternatives to institutional confinement;       
  developing and implementing effective means of diverting juveniles from the           


570                                                                               11-08

  traditional juvenile justice system; programs stressing advocacy activities aimed
  at improving services to youth impacted by the juvenile justice system; model
  programs to strengthen and maintain the family unit including self-help
  programs; prevention and treatment programs relating to juveniles who commit
  serious crimes; programs to prevent hate crimes; programs to provide aftercare
  and reintegration services; programs to prevent youth gun and gang violence.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements or Contracts); Provision of Specialized
  Services.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  To be eligible for an Award or contract under Part E, an applicant must: (1)
  respond to legislative requirements contained in Section 261 (a) and (b) of the
  JJDP Act, as amended as well as specific program guidelines issued by the
  Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention (OJJDP); (2) be
  consistent with the objectives and priorities of OJJDP and the State's
  comprehensive juvenile justice and delinquency prevention plan; (3) provide for
  proper program administration, evaluation, and fiscal reporting; (4) demonstrate,
  in the overall quality of the proposal, that the program is technically sound and
  will achieve the required program objectives at the highest possible level; and
  (5) respond to clear and documentable needs.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Part E funds are available under the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency
  Prevention Act of 1974, as amended, to public and private nonprofit agencies,
  organizations, individuals, Indian Tribal government, State and local units of
  government, combinations of State or local units. (Section 263 of JJDP Act as
  Amended.)
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Public and private youth serving agencies/organizations, State and local units of
  government, combinations of such units, or other private agencies,
  organizations, institutions or individuals.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Administration and cost appropriateness will be determined in accordance with
  the provisions of OMB circulars and government-wide common rules applicable
  to grants and cooperative agreements, including OMB Circular Nos. A-87 for
  State and local governments, A-21 for educational institutions, and A-122 for
  nonprofit organizations.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Program announcements will provide instructions regarding the necessity of
  submission to single State agencies. An applicant should consult the office or
  official designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more
  information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for
  assistance, if the State has identified the program for review. This program is
  ecluded form coverage in E.O.12372.
Application Procedure:
  The applicant must submit an application electronically through the Office of
  Justice Programs' Grant Management System or grants.gov as directed by the
  program announcement. Applicants are expected to address each concern or
  requirement in the guidelines as clearly and specifically as possible, giving
  particular attention to goal and objective statements, methodology and data
  requirements. A peer review group is established as mandated in Section
  262(d)(1)(A) of JJDP Act and applications are rated and ranked in relation to
  pre-defined selection criteria. This program is subject to the provisions of OMB
  Circular No. A-110 and the Common Rule.
Award Procedure:
  Assistance awards and contracts are awarded directly to applicants or may be
  awarded to State agencies established to administer the JJDP Act Formula Grant
  Program or a National Program Coordinator with a subgrant or contract to
  successful applicants for program administration and implementation. In either
  instance, both grantees and subgrantees are notified of a pending award.
Deadlines:
  Published in program announcements or requests for proposals.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 1 to 3 months.
Appeals:
  Informal reconsideration by Administrator for assistance applicants,
  administrative hearings for assistance award terminations. See CFR Part 18, 50
  FR 28199, July 11, 1985.
Renewals:
  Continuation grant, supplemental award or contract modification.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Grants awarded under the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act do
  not require a cash match.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Initial Awards usually are made for 12 to 36 months with further funding based
  upon the project period, grantee performance, and availability of funds.
  Drawdowns are possible under a Letter of Credit.
Reports:
  Semi-annual progress reports and quarterly financial reports are required.
Audits:
  All organizations that expend financial assistance of $300,000 or more in any
