  fiscal year must have a single audit for that year in accordance with OMB            
  Circular No. A-133, as amended, unless the audit condition on the award says         
  otherwise. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency not later than 9     
  months after the end of the grantee's fiscal year.                                   
Records:                                                                               
  Grantee must keep complete records on the disposition of funds, and records          
  related to the grant must be retained for three years after the date of the final    
  report.                                                                              
Account Identification:                                                                
  15-0405-0-1-754.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  FY 07 $0; FY 08 $830,000; and FY 09 est not available.                               
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  None.                                                                                
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  In FY 2006, OJJDP provided funding to over 350 Congressional earmark                 
  programs across the nation. Programs funded focused on preventing, reducing,         
  and controlling juvenile delinquency. Examples of the types of programs funded       
  include: mentoring, gang prevention and intervention, truancy reduction,             
  bullying, life skills development for youth, school-based mental health, school-     
  based probation, aftercare/reentry, family strengthening/parenting, and diversion    
  programs. In FY 2007, Part E funds were used to support over 30 grant awards         
  in three program areas: national juvenile justice programs; substance abuse          
  prevention and intervention programs; and prevention and intervention                
  programs.                                                                            
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  Developing, Testing and Demonstrating Promising New Programs awards are              
  governed by the OJP Financial Guide which is available upon request.                 
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  None.                                                                                
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention, Office of Justice             
  Programs, Department of Justice, Washington, DC 20531. Telephone: (202)              
  307-5914. Use the same number for FTS.                                               
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.ojjdp.ncjrs.org                                                           
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  16.540, Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention_Allocation to States;

                                                                                       
  16.542, Part D - Research, Evaluation, Technical Assistance and Training.

                                                                                       
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

                                                                                       
  Under the Demonstration Programs discretionary program Developing, Testing

                                                                                       
  and Demonstrating Promising New Programs Program, several programs were

                                                                                       
  continued in FY 2007. Examples of funded projects include Girls and Boys

                                                                                       
  Town USA Father Flanagan; Big Brothers/Big Sisters of America; FirstPic; and

                                                                                       
  Boys and Girls clubs of America. In addition, over 30 grant awards were made

                                                                                       
  in three program areas: national juvenile justice programs; substance abuse          
  prevention and intervention programs; and prevention and intervention                
  programs.

                                                                                       
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  Applications are judged according to their consistency with the policies and         
  program priorities established by the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency

                                                                                       
  Prevention Act. Specific criteria are applied that are related to the particular     
  program areas under which projects are funded. The criteria are published in the     
  Federal Register as part of the individual program announcements. Applications       
  undergo a competitive peer review process as outlined in the OJJDP                   
  Competition and Peer Review Policy 28 CFR Part 34.                                   
                                                                                       
16.543 MISSING CHILDREN'S ASSISTANCE                                                   
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:

                                                                                       
  OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS, OFFICE OF JUVENILE JUSTICE AND

                                                                                       
  DELINQUENCY PREVENTION, DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

                                                                                       
AUTHORIZATION:

                                                                                       
  Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act, Section 405, 42 U.S.C.

                                                                                       
  Section 5775.

                                                                                       
OBJECTIVES:

                                                                                       
  To coordinate Federal missing and exploited children activities and to support

                                                                                       
  research, training, technical assistance, and demonstration programs to enhance

                                                                                       
  the overall response to missing children and their families. Establish and

                                                                                       
  maintain a national resource center and clearinghouse dedicated to missing and

                                                                                       
  exploited children issues that: (1) provides a toll-free hotline where citizens can

                                                                                       
  report investigative leads and parents and other interested individuals can          
  receive information concerning missing children; (2) provides technical              
  assistance to parents, law enforcement, and other professionals working on           
  missing and exploited children cases; (3) promotes information sharing and           
  provides technical assistance by networking with regional nonprofit                  
  organizations, State missing children clearinghouses, and law enforcement            
  agencies; (4) develops publications that contain practical, timely information;      
  and (5) provides information regarding programs offering free or low-cost            
  transportation services that assist in reuniting children with their families. On a  


                                                                                  11-08
  periodic basis, as funding is designated by Congress for this purpose, conduct
  national incidence studies to determine the type and extent of missing children
  in America. Support law enforcement demonstration programs (e.g., the Internet
  Crimes Against Children Task Force Program) to enhance the investigative
  response to missing and exploited children cases. Support research to broaden
  understanding of a wide range of missing and exploited children issues (e.g.,
  abduction homicide investigation solvability factors), to inform training and
  technical assistance efforts and to identify promising practices and programs for
  replication. Develop training programs for law enforcement, child protective
  services, medical personnel, and prosecutors to enhance coordination and
  effectiveness of missing and exploited children investigations and to enhance the
  overall system response. Identify service gaps and develop programs to meet
  specialized needs of parents or guardians of children who are reported missing.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The Administrator is authorized to make grants to and enter into contracts with
  public agencies or private nonprofit organizations, or combinations thereof, for
  research, demonstration projects, or service programs designed (1) to educate
  parents, children, and community agencies and organizations in ways to prevent
  the abductions and sexual exploitation of children; (2) to provide information to
  assist in the locating and return of missing children; (3) to aid communities in
  the collection of materials which would be useful to parents in assisting others in
  the identification of missing children; (4) to increase knowledge of and develop
  effective treatment pertaining to the psychological consequences, on both
  parents and children, of (a) the abduction of a child, both during the period of
  disappearance and after the child is recovered; and (b) the sexual exploitation of
  a missing child; (5) to collect detailed data from selected States or localities on
  the actual investigative practices utilized by law enforcement agencies in
  missing children's cases; (6) to address the particular needs of missing children
  by minimizing the negative impact of judicial and law enforcement procedures
  on children who are victims of abuse or sexual exploitation and by promoting
  the active participation of children and their families in cases involving abuse or
  sexual exploitation of children; (7) to address the needs of missing children and
  their families following the recovery of such children; and (8) reduce the
  likelihood that individuals under 18 years of age will be removed from the
  control of such individuals legal custodians without such custodians' consent;
  (9) and to establish or operate statewide clearinghouses to assist in recovering or
  locating missing children.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Missing Children's funds are available under the Juvenile Justice and
  Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974, as amended, to public and private
  nonprofit agencies, organizations, individuals, State and local units of
  government, combinations of State or local units.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  State and local units of government, private nonprofit agencies, organizations,
  institutions or individuals.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular Nos. A-87 for State
  and local governments and A-122 for nonprofit organizations.
Preapplication Coordination:
  In carrying out the programs authorized by the Missing Children's Assistance
  Act, the OJJDP Administrator establishes annual research, demonstration, and
  service program priorities for grants and contracts and the criteria based on merit
  for making such grants and contracts. This program is excluded from coverage
  under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applicants must submit completed applications following directions from the
  Office of Justice Programs. Unsolicited applications are not accepted. The
  receipt, review, and analysis of applications will follow Office of Justice
  Programs policies and procedures for the administration of grant applications.
Award Procedure:
  Successful applicants are notified by the Office of Justice Programs according to
  established procedures. One copy of the grant award must be signed by the
  authorized official and returned to the Office of Justice Programs.
Deadlines:
  Deadlines are included with the application instructions, appropriate Application
  Kits and Guideline Manuals, and other procedural guides.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 1 to 6 months.
Appeals:
  See 28 CFR Part 18.
Renewals:
  Supplemental grants or contract modification.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  No match required.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Initial awards usually are made for 12 to 36 months with further funding based
  upon the project period and grantee performance. Drawdowns are possible
  under a Letter of Credit.
                                                                                    571
