Reports:                                                                             
  Financial, subgrant data and others are required by effective edition of the OJP   
  Financial Guide and other agency policy on a monthly, quarterly, semi-annually,    
  and/or annual basis, and additional reporting requirements listed in OJJDP         
  Guideline Manuals and other procedural guides.                                     
Audits:

  Effective 6/30/2004 (increase from 300,000 to $500,000) All organizations that

                                                                                     
  expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in any fiscal year must have a

  single audit. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency not later than  
  9 months after the end of the grantee's fiscal year.                               
Records:                                                                             
  Grantee must keep complete records on the disposition of funds.

Account Identification:                                                              
  15-0401-0-1-754.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  FY 07 $47,386,944; FY 08 $50,000,000; and FY 09 est not available.                 
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  None.                                                                              
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  In FY 2007 Missing Children's Assistance funds were used to support the            
  operation of the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, the           
  AMBER Alert training and technical assistance program, the Association of          
  Missing and Exploited Children's Organizations, and the Internet Crimes            
  Against Children Task Force Program. Program accomplishments include the           
  following: The Missing Child Hotline (1-800-THE-LOST). During FY 2007,             
  NCMEC answered 109,004 calls on its hotline and assisted in the recovery of        
  11,066 children. The Child Victim Identification Program (CVIP), a mechanism       
  to identify victims of child pornography, has been used to date to identify more   
  than 260 children in pornographic images and videos. To date there are a total of  
  1,247 identified child victims in the system. NCMEC works with the private         
  sector to distribute photos of missing children. During FY 2005, 221 children      
  were found as a result of this program. NCMEC uses computer technology and         
  graphic artists to age progress photos of long-term missing children. Almost 600   
  missing children whose photographs were computer age enhanced have been            
  located, and 20 unidentified deceased children have been identified as a result of 
  NCMEC's imaging specialists' work on facial reconstructions. Project Alert.        
  NCMEC provides targeted fax distribution for missing-child posters. Utilizing      
  the coded databases of 4 million fax numbers, NCMEC distributes more than          
  50,000 fax transmissions per month to law-enforcement personnel, media             
  outlets, and the general public. Now numbering 59, the ICAC Task Forces are        
  on the front line addressing computer facilitated child sexual exploitation        
  through aggressive investigations, prosecutions, computer forensics and            
  community outreach. The Task Forces have become regional centers of technical      
  and investigative expertise offering both prevention and investigative services to 
  youth, parents, educators, law enforcement, and others working on child sexual     
  exploitation issues. Since the program's inception in 1998, the Task Forces have   
  reviewed nearly 200,000 complaints over the last nine years, resulting in the      
  arrest of almost 11,000 individuals across the country intent on sexually          
  victimizing children. Once source of complaints reviewed by the ICAC Task          
  Forces is Cybertipline referrals forwarded from the National Center for Missing    
  Exploited Children's. The Cybertipline has received over 500,000 tips and          
  complaints since the system was activated in 1998. The ICAC Training and           
  Technical Assistance Program, an OJJDP supported effort, provides training to      
  tens of thousands of law enforcement personnel and prosecutors in the United       
  States and around the world in 17 countries. In fiscal year 2007 alone, ICAC       
  investigations led to more than 2,400 arrests and more than10, 500 forensic        
  examinations. To date there have been 399 successful AMBER alert child             
  recoveries.                                                                        
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  Awards are governed by the OJP Financial Guide which is available upon             
  request.                                                                           
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention, Department of Justice,      
  Washington, DC 20531. Telephone: (202) 616-3637.                                   
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.ojjdp.ncjrs.org.                                                        
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  None.                                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  In fiscal year 2007, OJJDP made awards to State and local law enforcement          
  agencies to support regional task forces to prevent, interdict, or investigate     
  crimes against children by sex offenders using the Internet. Additional awards     
  supported the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children national          
  resource center and clearinghouse functions, operation of the Cyber Tipline, and   
  continuation of the Jimmy Ryce Law Enforcement Training Center. OJJDP              
  supported training and technical assistance programs to provide assistance to      
  State clearinghouses, law enforcement, prosecutors, and other individuals or       
  community organizations working on missing and exploited children issues.          


572                                                                            11-08

CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Applications are judged according to their consistency with the policies and
  program priorities established by the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency
  Prevention Act. Specific criteria are applied that are related to the particular
  program areas under which projects are funded.
16.547 VICTIMS OF CHILD ABUSE
  (Judicial Child Abuse Training, Investigation and Prosecution of
  Child Abuse Through the Criminal Justice System, Court Appointed Special
  Advocates (CASA), and Children's Advocacy Centers)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS, OFFICE OF JUVENILE JUSTICE AND
  DELINQUENCY PREVENTION, DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Victims of Child Abuse Act, 42 U.S.C. Section 13001, et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  To develop model technical assistance and training programs to improve the
  courts' handling of child abuse and neglect cases to facilitate the adoption of
  laws to protect children against the potential second assault of the courtroom
  proceeding; to address the present situation in which many States have adopted
  innovative procedures that have far outpaced Federal law, leaving those children
  who do enter the Federal system inadequately protected; to address the
  inconsistency and disparity among State laws on child abuse; to train criminal
  justice system personnel on up-to-date, innovative techniques for investigating
  and prosecuting child abuse cases; and, to promote a multidisciplinary approach
  to coordinating the investigations and prosecution of child abuse cases and,
  thereby, limiting the number of pre-trial interviews a child must go through as
  well as better assure the accuracy of each interview, and to increase the number
  of communities making use of a Children's Advocacy Center approach to the
  investigation, prosecution and treatment of child abuse cases. The National
  Court Appointed Special Advocate Association provides technical assistance,
  information and support to local CASA programs, as well as assists communities
  in developing new programs, and provides support to existing and developing
  State organizations on issues such as the development of goals and objectives,
  State legislation, and State standards to strengthen local programs. Assist
  communities in developing child-focused programs designed to improve the
  resources available to children and families; provide support to non-offending
  family members; enhance coordination among community agencies,
  professionals, and provide medical support to health care and mental health care
  professionals involved in the intervention, prevention, prosecution, and
  investigation systems that respond to child abuse cases. The American
  Prosecutors Research Institute's National Center for the Prosecution of Child
  Abuse (NCPCA) pursues improvement of the quality of child abuse prosecution
  by providing training and technical assistance in the subject area.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds are available specifically to achieve the objectives of the Judicial Child
  Abuse Training, Investigation and Prosecution of Child Abuse Through the
  Criminal Justice System, Court Appointed Special Advocates (CASA), and the
  Regional and Local Advocacy Centers.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible applicants are designated in the congressional appropriations process for
  judicial child abuse training, investigation and prosecution of child abuse
  through the criminal justice system, and Court Appointed Special Advocates
  (CASA). Local nonprofit agencies/organizations may apply to National Court
  Appointed Special Advocates (NCASA) for State CASA programs and to start
  or expand local court appointed special advocate programs. Advocacy centers or
  agencies/organizations interested in start-up of children's advocacy centers may
  apply to the National Children's Alliance (NCA) for funds awarded to them by
  OJJDP for this purpose.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Public or private agencies/organizations addressing child maltreatment.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Cost will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State
  and local governments, A-21 for educational institutions, and A-122 for
  nonprofit organizations.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Procedures for application for funds to support CASA programs will be available
  through competitive proposals issued by National Court Appointed Special
  Advocates (NCASA), 100 W. Harrison St., North Tower, Suite 500, Seattle,
  Washington 98119-4123; and funds to support local children's advocacy centers
  will be available through solicitations issued by the National Children's Alliance
  (NCA) 1612 K Street, NW., Ste 500, Washington, DC 20006.
Award Procedure:
  Grantees are notified via the Grant Management System when an award is made.
