   Procedures for applications for CASA and local children's advocacy funds will     
  be provided in the solicitations for competitive proposals issued by NCASA and

  NCA.                                                                               
Deadlines:                                                                           
  None.                                                                              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  None.                                                                              
Appeals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  The terms for these grant program budget periods range from 12 to 36 months.       
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  None.                                                                              
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Grants are generally awarded for a 12 to 24 month time period, but may be          
  awarded for up to 36 month project period.                                         
Reports:                                                                             
  Final financial reports and semi-annual and final program performance reports      
  and performance measure data submission will be required as stipulated in the      
  effective edition of the OJP Financial Guide and in award documents. Similar       
  reporting requirements will be required by NCASAA and NCA to satisfy Federal       
  requirements.                                                                      
Audits:                                                                              
  All organizations that expend financial assistance of $300,000 or more in any      
  fiscal year must have a single audit for that year in accordance with OMB          
  Circular No. A-133, as amended, unless the audit condition on the award says       
  otherwise. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency not later than 9   
  months after the end of the grantee's fiscal year.                                 
Records:                                                                             
  Grantee must keep complete records on the disposition of funds.                    
Account Identification:                                                              
  15-0404-0-1-754; 15-0405-0-1-754.                                                  
Obligations:                                                                         
  FY 07 $3,240,000; FY 08 $3,290,000; and FY 09 est not available.                   
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  None.                                                                              
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  The Victims of Child Abuse Act Programs enhance the coordination among             
  community agencies and professionals responding to child abuse and neglect by:     
  Establishing and strengthening facility-based, child-focused programs that         
  coordinate the response to victims of child abuse through multidisciplinary        
  teams; Preventing the inadvertent revictimization of an abused child by the        
  justice and social service systems in their efforts to protect the child; Providing
  information, technical assistance and training at the local, state, regional, and  
  national levels; Assisting communities seeking to improve their response to        
  child abuse by supporting the development, growth, and continuation of             
  children's advocacy centers; Providing training, technical assistance, and         
  networking opportunities to local children's advocacy center programs              
  nationally; Providing training and technical assistance to child abuse             
  professionals across the country, especially those working within a child          
  advocacy center or a multidisciplinary team; Providing training and technical      
  assistance to prosecutors, investigators, and other professional personnel in the  
  child protection field; Developing training curricula and guideline materials for  
  the field; Developing State level capacity to train child abuse prosecutors,       
  investigators, and related child protection practitioners.                         
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  The current edition of the OJP Financial Guide is available at                     
  http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/finguide06/index.htm .                                    
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Ron Laney, Director, Child Protection Division, Office of Juvenile Justice and     
  Delinquency Prevention, Department of Justice, Washington, DC 20531.               
  Telephone: (202) 616-3637.                                                         
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.usdoj.gov .                                                             
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  None.                                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  None.                                                                              
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  By congressional designation, funds will be made available specifically for the    
  Judicial Child Abuse Training to the National Council of Juvenile and Family       
  Court Judges, for the Investigation and Prosecution of Child Abuse through the     
  Criminal Justice System to the American Prosecutor Research Institute, Court       
  Appointed Special Advocates and the National Court Appointed Special               
  Advocate Association, for the development of local Children's Advocacy Centers     
  through the National Children's Alliance Centers and the four Regional             
  Children's Advocacy Centers.                                                       
                                                                                     
                                                                                     


                                                                                11-08
16.548 TITLE V-DELINQUENCY PREVENTION PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS, OFFICE OF JUVENILE JUSTICE AND
  DELINQUENCY PREVENTION (OJJDP), DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
AUTHORIZATION:
  The Incentive Grants for Local Delinquency Prevention Programs Act of 2002.
OBJECTIVES:
  To increase the capacity of State and local governments to support the
  development of more effective prevention programs to improve the juvenile
  justice system through risk and protective factor focused programming
  approach.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  This program authorizes the Administrator to make grants to a State, to be
  transmitted through the State Advisory Group (SAG), to units of local
  government for delinquency prevention programming.
Applicant Eligibility:
  All State agencies designated by the Chief Executive under Section 223(a)(1) of
  the 2002 JJDP Act are eligible to apply for Title V funds. States will invite units
  of local government that meet the statutorily mandated eligibility requirements
  to apply for funding and competitively select for funding those jurisdictions that
  meet the minimum selection criteria specified in the guidelines as published in
  the Federal Register, and other such criteria as the State shall adopt.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Youth at risk of juvenile justice involvement and their families.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Cost will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State
  and local governments.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The Juvenile Justice State Advisory Group established pursuant to Section 223
  (a)(3) of the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act must be involved
  in the development and approval of the application. The application
  requirements for units of local government seeking funding from States include
  SAG certification of compliance with the JJDP core requirements, designation of
  a local Prevention Policy Board, submission of a 3-year delinquency plan, a 50
  percent cash or in-kind match of the subgrant amount, if not provided by States,
  and other additional criteria established by SAG. This program is eligible for
  coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs."
  An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the single point
  of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the State
  requires to be followed in applying for assistance if the State has selected the
  program for review.
Application Procedure:
  State applicants are submitted to OJJDP electronically following pre-established
  criteria.
Award Procedure:
  After OJJDP awards grants to the States, the SAG, in consultation with the State
  Agency, awards subgrants to units of local government through a competitive
  process.
Deadlines:
  All State Title V grant applications are due no later than March 31 of the fiscal
  year for which the funds are allocated. States should award all subgrants to units
  of local government within 180 days after receipt of the award from OJJDP.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  None.
Appeals:
  Hearings for State applicants held by OJJDP, subject to applicable Federal
  regulations. Appeal process for units of local government are determined by
  each State, subject to applicable Federal regulations.
Renewals:
  Applications are invited annually. Fund availability will be determined by
  Congressional appropriation.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Formula based on population of youth under the maximum age of original
  juvenile court delinquency jurisdiction. State and/or units of local government
  must match Title V fund with a 50 percent cash or the value of in-kind
  contributions.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grants to States will be awarded for a 36-month project period.
Reports:
  Financial, subgrant data and others as required by effective edition of the OJP
  Financial Guide on a monthly, quarterly, semi-annually, and/or annual basis, and
  additional reporting requirements listed in OJJDP guidelines for Title V.
Audits:
  All organizations that expend financial assistance of $300,000 or more in any
  fiscal year must have a single audit for that year in accordance with OMB
  Circular No. A-133, as amended, unless the audit condition on the award says
  otherwise. These audits are due to the Office of the Comptroller and the Federal
  Audit Clearinghouse no later than thirteen (13) months after the close of each
                                                                                   573
