  fiscal year during the term of the award (for fiscal years beginning on/after July    
  1, 1998, audit report packages are due nine (9) months after the close of the

  fiscal year.                                                                          
Records:

  Recipients must keep complete records on disposition of funds.                        
Account Identification:                                                                 
  15-0405-0-1-754.

Obligations:                                                                            
  FY 07 $64,169,820; FY 08 $61,100,000; and FY 09 est not available.                    
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                              
  Eligible States will receive an amount determined by a formula based on the           
  population of youth under the maximum age of original juvenile court                  
  delinquency jurisdiction.                                                             
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                
  In fiscal year 2002, 55 out of 56 eligible States and territories participated in the 
  program. The Report to Congress for FY 2003 is available through NCJRS.               
  This report fulfills the requirements of Section 504(4) of Title V, which states      
  that the Administrator of OJJDP shall submit a report to the Committee on             
  Education and the Workforce, in the U.S. House of Representatives and the             
  Committee of the Judiciary in the U.S. Senate describing activities and               
  accomplishments of grant activities under this title; describing procedures           
  followed to disseminate grant activity products and research findings; describing     
  activities conducted to develop policy and to coordinate Federal agency and           
  interagency efforts related to delinquency prevention; and identifying successful     
  approaches and making recommendations for future activities conducted under           
  the title. There were no State allocations of Title V funds in fiscal year 2003.      
  More than 1,500 communities across the Nation have conducted community                
  assessments, developed comprehensive delinquency prevention plans, and                
  received prevention grants. In 2003, 63 communities received community team           
  orientation training; 54 communities received data collection and analysis            
  training, and 40 communities received program and plan development training.          
  Fifty-five (55) communities participated in customized training and technical         
  assistance, which included evaluation training and Model Programs Guide               
  presentations. OJJDP has developed the Model Programs Guide and Database              
  (http://www.dsgonline.com/mpg2.5/mpg_index.htm) which can be used by                  
  communities to locate scientifically tested and proven (evidence-based)               
  programs and strategies to ensure that their efforts can produce measurable and       
  positive impact. In 2002 and 2003, two issues of Title V Newsletter were              
  distributed to all Title V subgrantees and used in local, State, and national         
  training conferences. The themes were "sustainability" and "performance               
  measures," two important skills areas to enhance/document success of Title V-         
  funded prevention activities. The draft Title V National Evaluation Report is         
  completed. This report presents the experience of the 11 national Title V             
  evaluation communities. Lessons learned from this evaluation project will             
  inform future implementation and evaluation of Title V-funded activities. While       
  some communities are just beginning the grant process, others have completed          
  the implementation of their 3-year delinquency prevention plans and are               
  reporting encouraging results in terms of enhanced coordination of youth              
  resources, family strengthening, school performance, and youth behavior.              
  Supported by community-wide commitment and measurable outcomes, many                  
  projects have been sustained following their grant periods through a variety of       
  State and local funding sources. As such, the initial seed money is creating          
  momentum for the focused, coordinated, and long-term efforts necessary to             
  address juvenile crime and delinquency in a meaningful way.                           
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                
  Regulations for Formula Grants and the OJP Financial Guide applicable                 
  editions, and Title V guidelines issued by OJJDP.                                     
Regional or Local Office:                                                               
  None.                                                                                 
Headquarters Office:                                                                    
  Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention, Department of Justice,         
  Washington, DC 20531. Contact: Elizabeth Wolfe. Telephone: (202) 307-5924             
  or email: Elizabeth.Wolfe@ojp.usdoj.gov. Use the same number for FTS.                 
Web Site Address:                                                                       
  http://www.ojjdp.ncjrs.org/titleV.                                                    
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                       
  16.540, Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention_Allocation to States;             
  16.541, Part E - Developing, Testing and Demonstrating Promising New                  
  Programs; 16.542, Part D - Research, Evaluation, Technical Assistance and             
  Training; 16.549, Part E_State Challenge Activities.                                  
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                            
  Programs implemented by participating communities include a broad range of            
  prevention activities, from early child development strategies such as nurse          
  home visitation and preschool/parent training programs to youth development           
  initiatives involving the use of mentoring, after-school activities, tutoring,        
  truancy and dropout reduction, substance abuse prevention, gang prevention            
  outreach, and police/probation teams.                                                 
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                       
  Criteria are established by the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act,      
  as amended, and the Guideline governing the Title V Grant Program provisions          


574                                                                               11-08

  of the JJDP Act as published in the Federal Register.
16.550 STATE JUSTICE STATISTICS PROGRAM FOR
STATISTICAL ANALYSIS CENTERS
   (SACs)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  BUREAU OF JUSTICE STATISTICS, DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, as amended; 42 U.S.C.
  3731-3732.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide financial and technical assistance to State governments for the
  establishment and operation of Statistical Analysis Centers (SACs) to collect,
  analyze, and disseminate justice statistics.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  To improve the administration of justice by encouraging the development of
  State-level capabilities for collecting, analyzing, utilizing, and disseminating
  statistical information pertaining to crime, criminal justice, sex offenses,
  incident based reporting, and for providing statistical information to the Federal
  Government for national compilations. To analyze particular criminal justice
  issues of current concern and significance to criminal justice practitioners, as
  identified by BJS in conjunction with other Office of Justice Programs
  components, the Justice Research and Statistics Association, and selected SAC
  Directors. Further information is available in the "State Justice Statistics
  Program for Statistical Analysis Centers: Program Application Guidelines, 2008.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible applicants are State agencies whose responsibilities include statistical
  activities consistent with the goals of the specific programs and are designated
  as the State Statistical Analysis Center through an Executive Order or
  legislation.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Eligible beneficiaries are State agencies whose responsibilities include statistical
  activities consistent with the goals of the specific programs.
Credentials/Documentation:
  The applicant must furnish, along with the application for an award, details of
  the program budget composition, goals, impact, methods, evaluation plan, and
  resources of the project. Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB
  Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments.
Preapplication Coordination:
  A potential grantee should contact the Headquarters Office, Stephanie L.
  Burroughs, Bureau of Justice Statistics, U.S. Department of Justice,
  Washington, DC 20531. Telephone: (202) 514-9012 or email
  Stephanie.Burroughs@usdoj.gov. The standard application forms as furnished
  by the Office of Justice Programs (OJP), in accordance with 28, CFR Part 66
  (Common Rule), must be used for this program. This program is eligible for
  coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs."
  An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the single point
  of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the State
  requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected the
  program for review.
Application Procedure:
  The Office of Justice Programs (OJP) now requires that funding applications be
  submitted electronically through the OJP Grants Management System (GMS),
  which will be accessed at http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/fundopps.htm.
Award Procedure:
  An award is granted by the Director of the Bureau of Justice Statistics and must
  be accepted by the applicant agency or institution according to the special
  conditions of the grant or cooperative agreement.
Deadlines:
  Contact the Headquarters Office, Stephanie L. Burroughs, Bureau of Justice
  Statistics, U.S. Department of Justice, Washington, DC 20531. Telephone: (202)
  514-9012. Email: Stephanie.Burroughs@usdoj.gov.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 2 to 3 months.
Appeals:
  Hearing by Director.
Renewals:
  Most awards are for periods of 12 months. Under some circumstances, a
  subsequent award may be made to continue the project.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  There is no statutory requirement for matching funds. For most programs,
  however, provision of cash or in-kind match by the recipient is encouraged.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Project duration period is generally 12 months. There are three methods for
  requesting payment of grant funds: the Letter of Credit Electronic Certification
  System (LOCES), the Phone Activated Paperless Request System (PAPRS) and
