  the Automated Standard Application for Payment (ASAP).                               
Reports:                                                                               
  Reporting requirements include: financial Status Reports containing the actual       
  expenditures for the reporting period and cumulative for the award to be             
  submitted quarterly online through GMS: and Progress Reports presenting              
  information relevant to the performance of the project to be submitted online        
  through GMS for reporting periods June 30 and December 31.                           
Audits:                                                                                
  Nonfederal entities that expend $500,000 or more in Federal funds (from all          
  sources including pass through sub awards) in theorganizational fiscal year (12      
  month turn around reporting period) shall have a single organizational audit         
  conducted in accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133.                   
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are      
  exempt from audit requirements for that year.                                        
Records:                                                                               
  In accordance with the requirements set forth in 28 CFR Parts 66 and 70, all         
  financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other records  
  pertinent to the award shall be retained by each organization for at least three     
  years following the closure of the most recent audit report.                         
Account Identification:                                                                
  15-0401-0-1-754.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  FY 07 $34,552,980; FY 08 $34,780,000; and FY 09 est not available.                   
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  $50,000.                                                                             
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  There were 46 cooperative agreements awarded in fiscal year 2007.                    
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  Office of Justice Programs Financial Guide.                                          
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  None.                                                                                
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Stephanie L. Burroughs, Bureau of Justice Statistics, U.S. Department of Justice,

                                                                                       
  Washington, DC 20531. Telephone: (202) 514-9012. Email:                              
  Stephanie.Burroughs@usdoj.gov. Use the same number for FTS.                          
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/bjs .                                                       
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  16.304, Law Enforcement Assistance_National Crime Information Center;

                                                                                       
  16.305, Law Enforcement Assistance_Uniform Crime Reports.

                                                                                       
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

                                                                                       
  Establishment of State statistical analysis centers; continued support of State-

                                                                                       
  level statistical analysis centers; support for States to provide data for national

                                                                                       
  reporting, and support for projects covered by SJS themes.

                                                                                       
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

                                                                                       
  Criteria are described in the program announcement.

                                                                                       
                                                                                       
16.554 NATIONAL CRIMINAL HISTORY IMPROVEMENT                                           
PROGRAM (NCHIP)                                                                        
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS, BUREAU OF JUSTICE STATISTICS,                            
  DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE                                                                
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, Public Law 105-251; 42           
  U.S.C. 3760.                                                                         
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To enhance the quality and completeness of the nation's criminal history record      
  systems; to provide financial and technical assistance to States for the             
  establishment or improvement of computerized criminal history record systems         
  and in their efforts to collect data on stalking and domestic violence; to improve   
  data accessibility and support data transmissions to national systems will permit    
  the immediate identification of persons who are prohibited from purchasing           
  firearms, are subject to domestic violence protective orders, or are ineligible to   
  hold positions of responsibility involving children, the elderly, or the disabled; to
  support the development of accurate and complete State sex offender                  
  identification and registration systems which interface with the FBI's Sex           
  Offender Registry and meet applicable Federal and State requirements; to             
  develop and improve the processes for identifying, classifying, collecting, and      
  entering data regarding stalking and domestic violence into local, State, and        
  national crime information databases; to ensure that criminal justice systems are    
  designed, implemented, or upgraded to be compliant where applicable, with the        
  FBI operated National Instant Criminal Background Check System and                   
  Interstate Automated Fingerprint Identification System, meet other applicable        
  statewide or regional criminal justice information sharing standards and plans;      
  and, build upon ongoing efforts so as to support the wide range of technology        
  based, criminal justice information, identification, and communications needs        
  identified by the States.                                                            
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                             


                                                                                  11-08
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Allowable uses of funds are outlined in the NCHIP fiscal year 2008 Program
  Announcement released December 2007.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Awards will be made to the agency designated by the Governor to administer the
  NCHIP program. An award will be made to each eligible applicant State. The
  designated agency may be the agency with primary responsibility for
  implementing the major activity to be funded with NCHIP funds or a parent
  agency with programmatic oversight over, and legislative authority to transfer
  funds to, such agency.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Funds awarded to the State may be allocated for use in State or local agencies or
  the courts. Private organizations may receive funds under contract arrangements
  with a State agency or its subgrantees to which NCHIP funds are allocated by
  the State.
Credentials/Documentation:
  The applicant must furnish, along with the application for an award, a detailed
  budget, a budget narrative, and a program narrative including the
  accomplishments, goals, impact, methods, evaluation plan, and resources of the
  project.
Preapplication Coordination:
  A potential grantee should contact the Headquarters Office, Gerald Ramker,
  NCHIP Branch Chief, Bureau of Justice Statistics, U.S. Department of Justice,
  Washington, DC 20531; Telephone: (202) 307-0765, or E-mail:
  Gerald.Ramker@usdoj.gov, to obtain a copy of the program announcement. The
  standard application forms as furnished by the Office of Justice Programs (OJP),
  in accordance with 28 CFR Part 66 (Common Rule), must be used for this
  program. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372,
  "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult
  the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or her State
  for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying
  for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  The Office of Justice Programs (OJP) now requires that funding applications be
  submitted electronically through the OJP Grants Management System (GMS),
  which can be accessed at http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/fundopps.htm.
Award Procedure:
  An award is granted by the Director of the Bureau of Justice Statistics and must
  be accepted by the applicant agency or institution according to the special
  conditions of the grant or cooperative agreement.
Deadlines:
  Contact the Headquarters Office, Gerald Ramker, NCHIP Branch Chief, Bureau
  of Justice Statistics at (202) 307-0765 or E-mail: Gerald.Ramker@usdoj.gov for
  application deadlines. The NCHIP Program Announcement, also contains
  submission information.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 90 days.
Appeals:
  Hearing by Director.
Renewals:
  Awards may be for up to 12 months. Activities must be completed by September
  30, 2009.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Provision of a 20 percent cash or in-kind match by the recipient is required.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Project duration period will be for up to 12 months. There are three methods for
  requesting payment of grant funds: the Letter of Credit Electronic Certification
  System (LOCES), the Phone Activated Paperless Request System (PAPRS) and
  the Automated Standard Application for Payment (ASAP).
Reports:
  Reporting requirements include: Financial Status Reports containing the actual
  expenditures for the reporting period and cumulative for the award to be
  submitted quarterly online through GMS: and Progress Reports presenting
  information relevant to the performance of the project to be submitted online
  through GMS for reporting periods June 30 and December 31.
Audits:
  Nonfederal entities that expend $500,000 or more in Federal funds (from all
  sources including passthrough sub awards) in the organizational fiscal year (12
  month turn around reporting period) shall have a single organizational audit
  conducted in accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A133.
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are
  exempt from audit requirements for that year.
Records:
  In accordance with the requirements set forth in 28 CFR Parts 66 and 70, all
  financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other records
  pertinent to the award shall be retained by each organization for at least 3 years
  following the closure of the most recent audit report.
Account Identification:
  15-0401-0-1-754; 15-0404-0-1-754.
Obligations:
                                                                                    575
