  levels; and identifying and providing technical assistance to coalition            
  membership and tribal communities to enhance access to essential services to       
  American Indian women victimized by domestic and sexual violence.                  
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants (Discretionary).                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Funds may be used for the following statutory program purpose areas: (A)           
  increasing awareness of domestic violence and sexual assault against American      
  Indian and Alaska Native women; (B) enhancing the response to violence             
  against American Indian and Alaska Native women at the tribal, Federal, and        
  State levels; and (C) identifying and providing technical assistance to coalition  
  membership and tribal communities to enhance access to essential services to       
  American Indian women victimized by domestic and sexual violence.                  
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Established nonprofit, nongovernmental tribal coalitions addressing domestic       
  violence and sexual assault against American Indian and Alaska Native women;       
  and individuals or organizations that propose to incorporate as nonprofit,         
  nongovernmental tribal coalitions to address domestic violence and sexual          
  assault against American Indian and Alaska Native women.                           
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Tribal sexual assault and domestic violence coalitions.                            
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  None.                                                                              
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental

  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official    
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information

  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance. This  
  would be if the State has selected the program for review. Application forms       
  furnished by the Federal agency, in accordance with 28 CFR, Part 66 (Common        
  Rule), must be used for this program.                                              
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Applicants must apply through the on-line Grants.gov portal. The receipt,          
  review, and analysis of applications will follow Office on Violence Against        
  Women policies and procedures for the administration of grant applications.        
  This program is subject to provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110.                   
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Upon approval by the Office on Violence Against Women, a letter is sent to the     
  applicant agency with copies of the Grant Award. One copy of the Grant Award       
  must be signed by an authorized official and returned to the Office of Justice     
  Programs.                                                                          
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Contact the Office of Violence Against Women for application deadlines.            
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Applicants will be notified before the end of the fiscal year.                     
Appeals:                                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Renewals:                                                                            
  Applications are submitted on an annual basis.                                     
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Grants will be made for amounts up to 100 percent of the costs of programs or      
  projects contained in approved applications. Match is not required for this grant  
  program; however, applicants are encouraged to maximize the impact of Federal      
  grant dollars by contributing to the costs of their projects. Supplimental         
  contributions may be cash, in-kind services, or a combination of both.             
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Up to 24 months. Funds are released on an as-needed basis to the grantee.          
Reports:                                                                             
  Semi-annual progress reports, quarterly financial reports, and an end-of- grant

                                                                                     
  program performance report will be required, as stipulated in the effective        
  edition of the OJP Financial Guide. progress Reports explain the activities        
  carried out and an assessment of the effectiveness of those activities, including  
  the number of persons served and the numbers of persons seeking services who       
  could not be served.                                                               
Audits:                                                                              
  All organizations that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in any      
  fiscal year must have a single audit for that year in accordance with OMB          
  Circular No. A-133, as amended, unless the audit condition on the award says       
  otherwise. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency not later than 9   
  months after the end of the grantee's fiscal year.                                 
Records:                                                                             
  The award recipient must keep complete records on disposition of funds.            
Account Identification:                                                              
  15-0409-0-1-754.

                                                                                     
Obligations:

                                                                                     
  (Grants)FY 07 $3,171,961; FY 08 est $5,108,911; and FY 09 est $3,576,238.

                                                                                     
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

  $150,000 to $540,000; $319,307.                                                    
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  FY 07: Applications: 19, Awards: 12; FY 08: Applications: 11,Awards: 11; FY        
  09: est. Applications: 11, Awards: 8.                                              


                                                                                11-08
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  OJP Financial Guide is applicable.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Office on Violence Against Women, Department of Justice, 800 K Street, NW.,
  Washington, DC 20530. Telephone: (202) 307-6026.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ovw.usdoj.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  16.587, Violence Against Women Discretionary Grants for Indian Tribal
  Governments; 16.589, Rural Domestic Violence, Dating Violence, Sexual
  Assault, and Stalking Assistance Program; 16.590, Grants to Encourage Arrest
  Policies and Enforcement of Protection Orders.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Increasing awareness about domestic violence and sexual assault against
  American Indian and Alaska Native women, enhancing the response to violence
  against American Indian and Alaska Native women at the tribal, state, and
  federal levels, and providing technical assistance to coalition membership and
  tribal communities to enhance access to essential services to American Indian
  women victimized by domestic violence and sexual assault.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Criteria are established by the Office on Violence Against Women and included
  in an annual Application Kit.
16.560 NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF JUSTICE RESEARCH,
EVALUATION, AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT GRANTS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS, NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF JUSTICE,
  DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, Section 201, as amended;
  Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988, Public Law 100-690.
OBJECTIVES:
  To encourage and support research, development, and evaluation to further
  understanding of the causes and correlates of crime and violence, methods of
  crime prevention and control, and criminal justice system responses to crime and
  violence and contribute to the improvement of the criminal justice system and its
  responses to crime, violence, and delinquency.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements or Contracts); Dissemination of
  Technical Information.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The funds may be used to conduct research and development pertaining to the
  above objectives, including the development of new or improved approaches,
  techniques, systems, and technologies and to carry out programs of research on
  the causes of crime and means of preventing crime, and to evaluate criminal
  justice programs and procedures, and responses to crime, violence, and
  delinquency.
Applicant Eligibility:
  The National Institute of Justice (NIJ) is authorized to make grants to, or enter
  into contracts or cooperative agreements with State and local governments,
  private nonprofit organizations, public nonprofit organizations, profit
  organizations, nonprofit organizations, institutions of higher education, and
  qualified individuals. Applicants from the Territories of the United States and
  federally recognized Indian Tribal Governments are also eligible to participate in
  this program.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  State and local governments; private nonprofit organizations, public nonprofit
  organizations, profit organizations, nonprofit organizations, institutions of
  higher education, and qualified individuals.
Credentials/Documentation:
  The applicant must furnish, along with the application for a grant, cooperative
  agreement or contract, resumes of principal investigator and key personnel,
  details of the budget composition, goals, impact, methods, evaluation, schedule
  and resources of the project. Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB
  Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments and OMB Circular No. A-21
  for educational institutions.
Preapplication Coordination:
  A potential grantee or contractor should contact the Institute to determine
  whether a similar proposal has already been funded or whether the proposal is
  within the objectives and priorities of the Institute. The standard application
  form (SF 424) as furnished by the Federal agency, in accordance with 28 CFR,
  Part 66 (Common Rule), must be used for this program. This program is
  excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  General information is provided in individual program solicitations, which are
  obtained by accessing the web site at www.ojp.usdoj.gov/nij, sending a self-
  addressed mailing label to NCJRS, Box 6000, Rockville, MD 20849-6000; or
                                                                                   577
