  calling toll free to request a copy. Telephone: (800) 851-3420. This program is       
  subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110 or the Common Rule,               
  where applicable. The Office of Justice Programs (OJP) requires that funding          
  applications be submitted electronically through the OJP Grants Management            
  System (GMS), which will be accessed at                                               
  http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/fundopps.htm. On-line submission of an application           
  represents legal binding acceptance of the terms of the application. For further      
  information about GMS, call the OJP GMS Hotline at 1-888-549-9901.                    
Award Procedure:                                                                        
  All applications are reviewed and evaluated by program managers for                   
  compatibility with the needs of the Institute's research plan, on-going or prior      
  studies, and the particular promise of the proposal itself. The Institute uses        
  external peer review processes, in addition to NIJ program manager review, in         
  order to weigh each application in terms of proposed methodology, economy,

  and other criteria bearing on the technical merit of the proposal. The Institute      
  Director makes final award decisions, incorporating the recommendations of the

  relevant NIJ staff and management-level personnel and external peer reviewers.

                                                                                        
Deadlines:                                                                              
  Throughout fiscal year 2008, NIJ will release multiple announcements for

  research funding. Program deadlines will be included in the announcements on          
  FedGrants at www.fedgrants.gov, on NIJ's website at                                   
  www.ojp.usdoj.gov/nij/funding.htm, and on the Office of Justice Programs              
  website at www.ojp.usdoj.gov/fundopps.htm.                                            
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                     
  Approximately 60 days for concept papers and 180 days for full proposals.             
Appeals:                                                                                
  Hearing by the Director.                                                              
Renewals:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                 
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                      
  This program has no statutory formula requirement. However, the Institute shall       
  require, whenever feasible, as a condition of approval of a grant or contract that    
  the recipient contribute money, facilities, or services to carry out the purpose for  
  which the grant or contract is sought.                                                
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                  
  Project durations are normally up to 24 months but longer awards are possible.        
Reports:                                                                                
  Fiscal Report, consisting of quarterly expenditures and budget expenditure            
  reports; final financial reports setting forth costs and expenditures of the          
  complete project; and Project Reports, consisting of bi-annual project reports,       
  and a final report. Other reports may be requested.                                   
Audits:                                                                                 
  All organizations that expend financial assistance of $300,000 or more in any         
  fiscal year must have a single audit for that year in accordance with OMB             
  Circular No. A-133, as amended, unless the audit condition on the award says          
  otherwise. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency not later than 9      
  months after the end of the grantee's fiscal year.                                    
Records:                                                                                
  Records and accounts concerning the expenditure of Institute and grantee or           
  contractor contributed funds shall be maintained during the grant and contract        
  period and retained for 3 years thereafter.                                           
Account Identification:                                                                 
  15-0401-0-1-754.                                                                      
Obligations:                                                                            
  FY 07 $54,297,540; FY 08 $17,260,000; and FY 09 est not available.                    
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                              
  In amounts consistent with the Institute's plans, priorities and levels of financing. 
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                
  Project reports and program implementation manuals are available from the

                                                                                        
  National Criminal Justice Reference Service, P.O. Box 6000, Rockville,                
  Maryland 20850. Telephone: (301) 514-5500. In fiscal year 2004, more than             
  1040 applications were received and 55 awards were made. In fiscal year 2005,         
  approximately 1270 applications will be received and it is anticipated that 67        
  awards will be made. In fiscal year 2006, approximately 1550 applications will        
  be received and it is anticipated that 80 awards will be made.                        
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                
  Grants and funding information are available free from the National Criminal          
  Justice Reference Service, Box 6000, Rockville, MD 20849-6000. Telephone:             
  (800) 851- 3420. It is also available electronically through the NCJRS web site       
  at www.ncjrs.org or through the NIJ website under "Funding Opportunities" at          
  www.ojp.usdoj.gov/nij.                                                                
Regional or Local Office:                                                               
  None.                                                                                 
Headquarters Office:                                                                    
  National Institute of Justice, Department of Justice, 810 7th Street, NW.,            
  Washington, DC 20531. Telephone: (202) 307-2942. Use same number for                  
  FTS. Fax Telephone: (202) 307-6394.                                                   
Web Site Address:                                                                       
  http://www.usdoj.gov/nij.                                                             
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                       


578                                                                               11-08

  16.542, Part D - Research, Evaluation, Technical Assistance and Training.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Priority is given to concerns such as: violent crime; alcohol-and drug-related
  crime; community crime prevention; criminal justice system improvement;
  forensic science research; and technology research, development and evaluation.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Proposals are evaluated according to the criteria specified in the program
  solicitation. With few exceptions, all proposals are reviewed competitively by a
  peer review panel consisting of outside experts in the field for technical quality
  and the general merits of the problems addressed. The Institute uses the peer
  review process to ensure fair and knowledgeable evaluation of preapplications
  and proposals. Program solicitations are announced in the Federal Register and
  advertised on the Institute's website at www.ojp.usdoj.gov/nij.
16.562 CRIMINAL JUSTICE RESEARCH AND
DEVELOPMENT-GRADUATE RESEARCH FELLOWSHIPS
   (Graduate Research Fellowship Program)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS, NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF JUSTICE,
  DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, as amended; Anti-Drug
  Abuse Act of 1988, Public Law 100-690.
OBJECTIVES:
  To improve the quality and quantity of knowledge about crime and the criminal
  justice system, while, at the same time, helping to increase the number of
  persons who are qualified to teach in collegiate criminal justice programs, to
  conduct research related to criminal justice issues, and to perform more
  effectively within the criminal justice system.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Eligible students are doctoral candidates engaged in dissertation research and
  writing on a problem related to law enforcement, crime or criminal justice. A
  fellowship is funded for up to 18 months. This competitive program provides
  fellowship stipends, major project costs, and certain university fees for a
  maximum amount of $15,000. Students who do not qualify for the doctoral
  program may consider applying for other research grants under the fellowship
  solicitation.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Accredited institution of higher education offering a doctoral degree program.
  Degree does not have to be in criminal justice, but proposed dissertation work
  must be related to criminal justice issues.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  The student must be engaged in writing a doctoral dissertation directly relevant
  to crime, law enforcement and/or criminal justice.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Eligible graduate students interested in competing for a fellowship must furnish
  along with the application for a grant, a letter of endorsement from the faculty
  advisor. Applicants must have completed all degree requirements except the
  research writing, and defense of the dissertation or an internship prior to the start
  of the grant. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No.
  A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102
  and E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Detailed information is provided in the program solicitation which is obtained
  by sending a self-addressed mailing label to the National Criminal Justice
  Reference Service, Box 6000, Rockville, MD 20849-6000 or calling toll free to
  request a copy at (800) 851-3420 or accessing the web site at
  www.ojp.usdoj.gov/nij under "Funding Opportunities". This program is subject
  to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110.
Award Procedure:
  Grants are awarded by the Institute Director based on the recommendations of
  criminal justice experts from outside reviewers and Institute staff.
Deadlines:
  Applications may be submitted at any time throughout the year. Proposals will
  be due and subsequently reviewed three times a year, in February, June, and
  October, with funding decisions made within 60-90 days of the review date.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 90 days from application deadline.
Appeals:
  Hearings by the Director.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no formula and matching requirements.
