Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Project durations are not normally less than 6 months nor more than 18 months.     
Reports:                                                                             
  Quarterly financial status and bi-annual project reports are required. Three       
  copies of the dissertation and an Executive Summary are required upon              
  completion.                                                                        
Audits:                                                                              
  All organizations that expend financial assistance of $300,000 or more in any      
  fiscal year must have a single audit for that year in accordance with OMB          
  Circular No. A-133, as amended, unless the audit condition on the award says       
  otherwise. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency not later than 9   
  months after the end of the grantee's fiscal year.                                 
Records:                                                                             
  All project records shall be retained for 3 years.                                 
Account Identification:                                                              
  15-0401-0-1-754.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  FY 07 $0; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not available.                    
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  In amounts consistent with the Institute's plans, priorities, and levels of        
  financing.                                                                         
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  In FY 2003, a total of 41 applications were received under the Graduate            
  Research Fellowship Solicitation, with five awards made.                           
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  The program solicitation, "Fellowship Opportunities," is available by sending a    
  self-addressed mailing label to: National Criminal Justice Reference Service,      
  Box 6000, Rockville, MD 20850, or call toll free to request a copy. Telephone:     
  (800) 851-3420. Also available electronically from the Justice Information         
  Center on the world wide web at www.ncjrs.org or on NIJ's web site at              
  www.ojp.usdoj.gov/nij under "Funding Opportunities".                               
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  National Institute of Justice, Washington, DC 20531. Telephone: (202) 307-         
  2942. FTS Telephone: (202) 367-2942.                                               
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.usdoj.gov/nij.                                                          
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  84.032, Federal Family Education Loans; 84.038, Federal Perkins Loan               
  Program_Federal Capital Contributions.

                                                                                     
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  Resisting Drug Use Among Adolescents; Controlling the Offender in the              
  Community; Eyewitness Memory and Aging; Sentencing Child Sexual Abusers;           
  An Analysis of Police Post Assault Reactions Measuring Procedural Justice; The     
  Fear of Crime by Older Americans; the Criminal Justice System's Handling of        
  Drug Offenders, and Influences of Adolescent Delinquent Behavior. Fear of          
  Crime and Its Antecedents; Drug Use and Help-Seeking Patterns Among

                                                                                     
  University Students; Differential Drug-Use Patterns Between Institutionalized      
  White and Black Male Delinquents in Georgia; Court Orders of Protection for        
  Battered Women; Forensic Evidence in Sexual Assault Cases; A Survey of             
  Federal, State and Local Prosecutors on Computer Crime; Community Policing         
  and Domestic Violence; Female Gang Involvement in the Midwest: A Two-City          
  Comparison; Violation of Probation Release Conditions and Criminal                 
  Recidivism; Impact on Crime of Criminal and Juvenile Justice System Policies       
  and Practices; Specifying Public Support for Corrections Rehabilitation: A         
  Factual Survey Approach; Impact of Managerial Style on the Colombian               
  Distribution of Cocaine to the Wholesale Level; Influence of Neighborhood          
  Disadvantage or Delinquency and Drug Abuse; Evaluation and Review of the           
  Peacemaker Court of the Navajo Nation; Non-Fatal Workplace Violence                
  Epidemiology: Risk Factors and Legal Implications; Variation in Community          
  Policing Activities Across Neighborhoods; The Peer Group Revisited: A              
  Network Approach for Understanding Adolescent Delinquency; and New                 
  Estimates of the Cost of Crime: A Hedonic Evaluation.                              
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Grasp of issues and the relationship of issues to significant problems confronting 
  criminal justice in the United States, description of design and methodology, the  
  potential utility of results, and qualifications of applicant to produce acceptable
  doctoral dissertation (based upon proposal paper, university endorsement, and      
  researcher's background statement).                                                
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
16.566 NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF JUSTICE W.E.B.                                          
DUBOIS FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM                                                            
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS, NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF JUSTICE,                         
  DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE                                                              
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, Section 201, as amended;       
  Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988, Public Law 100-690.                                   


                                                                                11-08
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide opportunities for researchers with an interest in building knowledge
  for the enhancement of justice system administration, delinquency prevention,
  and violence reduction with opportunities to pursue projects aimed at addressing
  these issues from diverse cultural perspectives and evaluating the operational
  complexities of justice system administration manifested in various cultural
  contexts.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The funds may be used to conduct research for both adult and juvenile systems
  on crime causation, crime measurements, crime prevention, law enforcement,
  criminal justice administration, and the effectiveness and efficiency of anti-
  crime programs. Fellows conduct their studies while based at the National
  Institute of Justice.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Fellowship grants are awarded to individuals or to their parent agencies or
  organizations. IPA appointments also may be negotiated with Fellows' parent
  agencies. Generally, researchers and academicians working in the criminal
  justice field, including university or college-based academic researchers and
  upper-level managers in criminal justice agencies are eligible.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Generally, researchers and academicians with research experience in criminal-
  justice or criminal-justice relevant fields are eligible for grants; those working
  for law enforcement related branches of State or local government units are
  eligible for grants or IPA appointments. Each prospective candidate must have
  at least a doctoral-level or a legal degree of J.D. or higher.
Credentials/Documentation:
  The applicant must furnish, along with the application for a grant, a resume, a
  project description which includes the project's scope, a discussion of the state-
  of-the-art methodology, project period, and the anticipated impact of the study
  on the justice system. Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB
  Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Potential applicants are encouraged to request the program announcement for
  additional information about eligibility requirements, the research priorities of
  the Institute, and application and selection procedures. The standard application
  form (SF 424) as furnished by the Federal agency, in accordance with 28 CFR,
  Part 66 (Common Rule), must be used for this program. This program is
  excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Detailed information is provided in a program solicitation which is obtained by
  sending a self-addressed mailing label to NCJRS, Box 6000, Rockville, MD
  20849-6000; calling toll free to request a copy. Telephone: (800) 851-3420; or
  accessing the web site at www.ojp.usdoj.gov/nij under "Funding Opportunities."
   This program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110 or the
  Common Rule, where applicable.
Award Procedure:
  Grants are awarded by the Institute Director based on the recommendations of
  the Institute staff and outside reviewers.
Deadlines:
  NIJ will release multiple announcements for research funding during the fiscal
  year. Program deadlines will be included in the announcements of Requests for
  Proposals in the Federal Register, on NIJ's website at www.ojp.usdoj.gov/nij,
  and on the NCJRS bulletin board and in electronic and hard copy publications.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 90 days from application deadline.
Appeals:
  Hearing by the Director.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no formula or matching requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Project durations are normally not less than 6 months nor more than 12 months.
Reports:
  Fiscal report consisting of quarterly expenditures and budget expenditure
  reports; final financial report giving costs and expenditures of the complete
  project; program reports consisting of bi-annual progress reports; and a final
  report including a summary. Other reports may be requested. Financial
  reporting for IPAs will be negotiated in the appointment agreement.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  24, 1997), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profits
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $300,000
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $300,000 a
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
                                                                                   579
