  Records and accounts concerning the expenditure of Institute and grantee or            
  appointee-contributed funds shall be maintained during the grant period and            
  retained for 3 years thereafter.                                                       
Account Identification:                                                                  
  15-0401-0-1-754.                                                                       
Obligations:                                                                             
  FY 07 est not available; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not available.         
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                               
  In amounts consistent with the applicant's proposed project and the Institute's        
  plans, priorities and levels of financing.                                             
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                 
  None. Program will be funded for the first time during fiscal year 2000.               
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                 
  Applicants may obtain program information by accessing the Institute's web site        
  at www.ojp.usdoj.gov/nij under "Funding Opportunities" or calling NCJRS toll           
  free. Telephone: (800) 851-3420.                                                       
Regional or Local Office:                                                                
  None.                                                                                  
Headquarters Office:                                                                     
  National Institute of Justice, Department of Justice, 810 7th Street, NW.,             
  Washington, DC 20531. Telephone: (202) 307-2942. Telephone: FTS (202)                  
  307-2942.                                                                              
Web Site Address:                                                                        
  http://www.usdoj.gov.                                                                  
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                        
  16.561, National Institute of Justice Visiting Fellowships; 16.562, Criminal

                                                                                         
  Justice Research and Development_Graduate Research Fellowships.

                                                                                         
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                             
  None. Fellowship to be offered for the first time during calendar year 2000.

                                                                                         
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

                                                                                         
  All proposals will be reviewed by a peer review panel. Their selection will be

                                                                                         
  based on the applicant's experience, the significance and conceptualization of

                                                                                         
  the project topic, the quality and feasibility of the research design, and the

                                                                                         
  potential impact of the project on the criminal justice system.

                                                                                         
                                                                                         
16.571 PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICERS' BENEFITS PROGRAM                                          
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                          
  OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS, BUREAU OF JUSTICE ASSISTANCE,                              
  DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE                                                                  
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                           
  Public Safety Officers' Benefits Act of 1976, as amended (42 U.S.C. 3796,              
  Section 1201, Public Law No. 90-351, part L of Title I of the Omnibus Crime            
  Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968).                                                 
OBJECTIVES:                                                                              
  To provide a $275,658 death benefit (FY 2005) to the eligible survivors of             
  Federal, State or local public safety officers whose death is the direct and           
  proximate result of a personal (traumatic) injury sustained in the line of duty.       
  Effective November 29, 1990, the Act also provides the same benefit to a public        
  safety officer who has been permanently and totally disabled as the direct result      
  of a catastrophic personal injury sustained in the line of duty. The injury must       
  permanently prevent the officer from performing any gainful work.                      
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                     
  Direct Payments with Unrestricted Use.                                                 
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                               
  To provide a one-time financial death benefit to the eligible survivors of Federal,    
  State or local public safety officers, and disability benefit to the Federal, State or 
  local public safety officer, whose permanent and total disability is the direct and    
  proximate result of a catastrophic personal injury sustained in the line of duty.      
  There are no restrictions as to how the monies are spent once they reach the           
  recipient with the exception that monies paid on behalf of minor children must         
  be used for their care and benefit.                                                    
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                   
  Public safety officers--A public safety officer is a person serving a public agency    
  in an official capacity, with or without compensation, as a law enforcement            
  officer, firefighter or member of a public rescue squad or ambulance crew. Law         
  enforcement officers include but are not limited to police, corrections, probation,    
  parole and judicial officers. Volunteer firefighters and members of volunteer          
  rescue squads and ambulance crews are covered if they are officially recognized        
  or designated members of legally organized volunteer fire, rescue or ambulance         
  departments. Disabled public safety officers and eligible survivors of deceased        
  public safety officers in the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, Virgin          
  Islands, American Samoa, the Pacific Trust Territories and the Northern Mariana        
                                                                                         
  Islands are also entitled to benefits under the Act. Death benefit coverage for (1)

                                                                                         
  State and local law enforcement officers and firefighters applies to deaths

                                                                                         
  occurring on or after September 29, 1976; (2) Federal law enforcement officers

                                                                                         
  and firefighters applies to deaths occurring on or after October 12, 1984; (3)

                                                                                         
  Federal, State and local rescue squad and ambulance crew members applies to            
  death occurring on or after October 15, 1986; and (4) Federal Emergency                
  Management Agency (FEMA) personnel and State, local, and tribal emergency              


580                                                                                11-08

  management and civil defense agency employees are covered for deaths
  occurring on or after October 30, 2000. Disability benefit coverage for Federal,
  State and local law enforcement officers, firefighters and members of public
  rescue squads and ambulance crews applies to injuries sustained on or after
  November 29, 1990. FEMA personnel and State, local and tribal emergency
  management and civil defense agency employees are covered for such injuries
  sustained on or after October 30, 2000. Disability benefit coverage for Federal,
  State and local law enforcement officers, firefighters and members of public
  rescue squads and ambulance crews applies to injuries sustained on or after
  November 29, 1990. FEMA personnel and State, local and tribal emergency
  management and civil defense agency employees are covered for such injuries
  sustained on or after October 30, 2000.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  The Public Safety Officers' Benefits (PSOB) Act, enacted in 1976, was designed
  to offer peace of mind to men and women seeking careers in public safety and to
  make a strong statement about the value American society places on the
  contributions of those who serve their communities in potentially dangerous
  circumstances. The PSOB Program provides a one-time financial benefit to the
  eligible survivors of public safety officers whose deaths are the direct and
  proximate result of a traumatic injury sustained in the line of duty. As of
  October 1, 2007, the death benefit amount is $303,064.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Claim forms entitled "Claim for Death Benefits" and "Report of Public Safety
  Officers' Death" or "Report of Public Safety Officer's Permanent and Total
  Disability," and supporting family, medical and investigative documentation.
  This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Employing agencies and/or claimants should initiate a claim by writing to or
  telephoning the Payments and Benefits Division, Public Safety Officers' Benefits
  Program, Bureau of Justice Assistance, Washington, DC 20531. Telephone: 1-
  888-SIGNL13 (744-6513). Upon receiving such notification, program staff will
  provide claim forms and advise the employing agency and claimant of claim
  documentation requirements. This program is excluded from coverage under
  E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Submit "Claim for Death Benefits" and "Report of Public Safety Officers'
  Death" or "Report of Public Safety Officers' Permanent and Total Disability,"
  and supporting documentation to the same. Benefits Office, Public Safety
  Officers' Benefits Program, Bureau of Justice Assistance, Washington, DC
  20531. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular Nos. A-
  102 and A-110.
Award Procedure:
  Upon a finding of eligibility by the Bureau of Justice Assistance, eligible
  claimants are awarded a lump sum benefit. For Death Benefit: If the officer is
  survived by spouse, but there are no eligible children, the spouse will receive
  100% of the benefit. If the officer is survived by spouse and eligible children,
  the spouse will receive 50% of the benefit and the children will receive equal
  shares of the remaining 50%. If the officer is survived by eligible children but no
  spouse, the children will receive equal shares of the benefit. If the officer is
  survived by neither a spouse, nor eligible children and does not have a life
  insurance policy, then the benefit will be made payable to the surviving parents
  in equal shares.
Deadlines:
  Claim may be filed up to 1 year following a public safety officer's death or
  prerequisite disability certification. (A preliminary determination by the PSOB
  Office that the officer is medically retired from his/her agency, and receiving the
  maximum disability compensation allowed by his/her jurisdiction).
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Dependening on circumstances of death, sufficiency of claim documentation,
  and/or the need for expert medical reviews. This varies from case to case.
Appeals:
  A claimant may, within 30 days after notification of denial of eligibility, request
  an oral appeal hearing. When making this request, the claimant may waive the
  oral appeal hearing and within 60 days, present written evidence for
  reconsideration by an Administrative Hearing Officer. A claimant may initiate
  an appeal by writing the Chief of Payments and Benefits Division, Public Safety
  Officers' Benefits Program, Bureau of Justice Assistance, Washington, DC
  20531. Telephone: 1-888-744-6513.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  None.
Reports:
  None.
Audits:
  None.
Records:
  None.
