Account Identification:                                                              
  15-0403-0-1-754.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  FY 07 $68,821,622; FY 08 $70,854,000; and FY 09 est not available.                 
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  None.                                                                              
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  In Fiscal Year 2006, PSOB developed the E-package. Using the E-package,            
  program staff proactively email claim packages to public safety agencies when a    
  public safety officer is either killed or becomes permanently and totally disabled 
  in the line of duty. All standard documents have been translated from English to   
  Spanish. All PSOB applications are now web-based.                                  
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  Title 28, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 32.                                    
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Public Safety Officers' Benefits Program, Bureau of Justice Assistance,

                                                                                     
  Washington, DC 20531. Contact: Valerie Neal, Senior Benefits Officer.

                                                                                     
  Telephone: (202) 616-6500 or (1-888)744-6513 or by E-mail:

                                                                                     
  AskPSOB@usdoj.gov.                                                                 
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/BJA/grant/psob/psob_main.html.

                                                                                     
RELATED PROGRAMS:

                                                                                     
  None.

                                                                                     
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

  None.                                                                              
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  None.                                                                              
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
16.575 CRIME VICTIM ASSISTANCE                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS, OFFICE FOR VICTIMS OF CRIME,                           
  DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE                                                              
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  42 U.S.C. 10603(a).                                                                
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  Enacted in 1984, the Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) is the central source of          
  federal financial support for direct services to victim of crime. VOCA is          
  administered at the federal level through the U.S. Department of Justice, Office   
  for Victims of Crime which annually awards a grant to each state, the District of  
  Columbia and U.S. Territories to support victim assistance services for victims    
  and survivors of domestic violence, sexual assault, child abuse, drunk driving,    
  homicide, and other crimes. Each state has a designated VOCA assistance            
  agency to administer VOCA grants. Those state agencies in turn, subgrant to        
  organizations that provide direct services to victims of crime. While minimal      
  federal requirements must be met, each state is given great discretion in          
  awarding specific subgrants.                                                       
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Formula Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Funds under this program shall be used by States and territories to provide direct 
  services to crime victims with the following exception: States may retain up to 5  
  percent of their grant for administrative and training purposes. All States and    
  most Territories receive an annual VOCA victim assistance grant. Each State,       
  the District of Columbia, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and Puerto Rico receive a base  
  amount of $500,000. The territories of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam,         
  and American Samoa, each receive a base amount of $200,000. Additional             
  funds are distributed based on populations. That portion of the then remaining     
  funds will be divided among all States or territories according to population      
  (U.S. Census Bureau). If the amount available for grants under this program is     
  insufficient to provide $500,000 to each State, the base amount available shall    
  be distributed equally among the States and territories. A victim assistance       
  program is an eligible crime victim assistance program under VOCA if it: (A) is    
  operated by a public agency or a nonprofit organization, or combination; (B)       
  meets the appropriate match requirements; (C) uses volunteers unless the VOCA      
  administrator grants a waiver for a compelling reason; (D) promotes coordinated    
  public and private efforts to aid crime victims within the community served; (E)   
  assists victims in applying for crime victim compensation; (F) complies with       
  Federal rules regulating VOCA, including Program Guidelines/Rules and the          
  effective edition of the OJP Financial Guide; (G) maintains civil rights           
  information; (H) complies with additional eligibility or service criteria          
  established by the State grantees; (I) provides services to victims of Federal     
  crimes on the same basis as services are provided to victims of State and local    
  crimes; (J) provides services to crime victims without charge unless a waiver is   
  obtained from the State grantee; and, (K) maintains confidentiality of client-     
  counselor and research information. An eligible crime victim assistance            
  program shall expend sums received under subsection (a) only for providing         
  direct services to victims of crime. The chief executive of each State shall (A)   
                                                                                     


                                                                                11-08
  certify that priority shall be given to eligible crime victim assistance programs
  providing assistance to victims of sexual assault, spousal abuse, or child abuse,
  and to programs serving previously underserved victims of violent crime, as
  determined by the State, (B) certify that funds awarded to eligible crime victim
  assistance programs will not be used to supplant State and local funds otherwise
  available for crime victim assistance; and provide such other information and
  assurances related to the purposes of this section as the Director may reasonably
  require. As used in this program, (1) the term "State" includes the District of
  Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands,
  and any other territory or possession of the United States; and (2) the term
  "services to victims of crime" includes (a) crisis intervention services to provide
  emotional support in cases arising from the occurrence of crime; (b) providing,
  in an emergency, transportation to court, short-term child care services, and
  temporary housing and security measures; (c) assistance in participating in
  criminal justice proceedings; and (d) payment of all reasonable costs for a
  forensic medical examination of sexual assault victims, to the extent that such
  costs are otherwise not reimbursed or paid; (3) the term "chief executive"
  includes a person designated by the governor to perform the functions of the
  chief executive under this section.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Any State, the District of Columbia, all Commonwealths and any other territory
  or possession of the United States are eligible. Funds will be subgranted to
  eligible public and nonprofit organizations or combinations of such agencies or
  organizations or of both such agencies and organizations, who provide direct
  services to victims of crime.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Any member of the general public who has been a victim of a crime or those
  who are survivors of victims of crime.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applications from the designated State agency for this program must be
  submitted on Standard Form 424 electronically via the Office of Justice
  Programs Grants Management System (GMS), at a time specified by the Office
  for Victims of Crime, Office of Justice Programs. The State grant applicant, by
  completing the grant application, and by receiving a VOCA victim assistance
  grant award, certifies: (1) that funds awarded to eligible crime victim assistance
  programs will not be utilized to supplant State and/or local funds that would
  otherwise be available for crime victim assistance; (2) that the State will provide
  such accounting, auditing, monitoring and evaluation procedures as may be
  necessary, and keep such records as the Office of Justice Programs may
  prescribe, to assure fiscal control, proper management and efficient
  disbursement of Federal funds; (3) that the State shall give priority to programs
  aiding victims of sexual assault, spousal abuse, or child abuse, and to programs
  serving previously underserved victims of violent crimes as determined by the
  State; (4) that the State will submit to the Office of Justice Programs Subgrant
  Award Reports and Performance Reports concerning the activities carried out
  with the Federal funds received and will maintain and report such data and
  information as required; (5) that the State will adhere to the audit and financial
  management requirements set forth in the OJP Financial Guide; (6) that the State
  will comply with all applicable Federal nondiscrimination requirements; and, (7)
  certify that the information in the application is correct and that the State will
  comply with all applicable provisions of the Victims of Crime Act and other
  Federal laws, regulations, and circulars. Costs will be determined in accordance
  with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency in accordance
  with 28-CFR Part 66 (Common Rule), must be used for this program. This
  program is excluded from coverage under Executive Order 12372.
Application Procedure:
  The applicant applies on-line at http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov under
  "Grants/Funding" once posted by the Office for Victims of Crime.
Award Procedure:
  The Director, Office for Victims of Crime, Office of Justice Programs has final
  approval authority. Once an award is granted to a State, the State will subgrant
  the monies to private nonprofit and/or public agencies for the purpose specified
  in the application and in conformance with all general and special conditions.
Deadlines:
  Contact the Headquarters Office: Eligible States will be notified of the date for
  submission of applications through an OVC listserv message.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 3 to 4 weeks.
Appeals:
  Hearing by the Assistant Attorney General, Office of Justice Programs.
Renewals:
  Awards are for the year of award plus 3 years; applications will be submitted
  annually.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Awards will be made on the basis of population with a base amount of $500,000
  for States; $200,000 for the territories of N. Mariana Islands, Guam, and
  American Samoa. Fund availability may necessitate a base change.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
                                                                                    581
