  States have the year of award plus 3 years to expend the funds.                      
Reports:                                                                               
  Subgrant Award Report for each subrecipient of VOCA funds; Quarterly, final          
  financial reports and Annual Program Performance reports will be required as         
  stipulated in the Program Guidelines/Rules and the OJP Financial Guide.              
Audits:                                                                                
  All organizations that expend $500,000 or more in federal funds per                  
  organizational fiscal year must have a single audit for that year in accordance      
  with OMB Circular No. A-133, as amended. The audit report and transmittal            
  letter must be submitted within 9 months from the end of the state fiscal year.      
Records:                                                                               
  Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other          
  records pertinent to a grant shall be retained for a period of at least three years  
  after the grant has been closed.                                                     
Account Identification:                                                                
  15-5041-0-2-754.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  FY 07 $370,600,000; FY 08 $268,064,000; and FY 09 est not available.                 
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  Base of $500,000 to each State, Commonwealth, and the District of Columbia.          
  Territories of the United States receive a base of $200,000. Remaining dollars       
  will be divided based on population.                                                 
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  None.                                                                                
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  Program Guidelines/Rules are published in the Federal Register. The OJP

                                                                                       
  Financial Guide is available at http://www.usdoj.gov/oc, or call the Office of the

                                                                                       
  Comptroller, Customer Service Center at 1-800-458-0786 to request a copy.

                                                                                       
Regional or Local Office:

                                                                                       
  None.

                                                                                       
Headquarters Office:

                                                                                       
  Toni L. Thomas, Director, State Compensation and Assistance Division, Office

                                                                                       
  for Victims of Crime, Office of Justice Programs, Department of Justice, 810

                                                                                       
  Seventh Street, NW., Washington, DC 20531. Telephone: (202) 616-3579. Use

                                                                                       
  the same number for FTS.

                                                                                       
Web Site Address:

  http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/ovc/.                                                       
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  16.576, Crime Victim Compensation.                                                   
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  Potential projects include, but are not limited to: funding to support (a)           
  domestic violence shelter services; (b) rape crisis programs, including coverage     
  for sexual assault examinations: child abuse treatment programs; and (d) support     
  groups for survivors of homicide victim and DUI/DWI crash victims, etc.              
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  Criteria for selecting proposals are specifically spelled out in the Victims of      
  Crime Act of 1984, as amended. Additional criteria will be developed by the          
  Office for Victims of Crime. These criteria are listed on the OVC web page           
  www.ojp.usdoj.gov.                                                                   
                                                                                       
                                                                                       
16.576 CRIME VICTIM COMPENSATION                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS, OFFICE FOR VICTIMS OF CRIME,                             
  DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE                                                                
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  42 U.S.C. 10602 (a)                                                                  
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  The Office for Victims of Crime (OVC), U.S. Department of Justice, administers       
  the Crime Victim Compensation formula grant program. OVC annually awards             
  a grant to each state, the District of Columbia, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam,      
  and Puerto Rico to support state crime victim compensation programs. These           
  programs help pay for some of the expenses resulting from crimes involving           
  violence or abuse.                                                                   
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Formula Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Funds under this program shall be used by the States for awards of                   
  compensation benefits to crime victims, with the following exception: States         
  may retain up to 5 percent of their total grant for administrative and training      
  purposes. As provided in recent VOCA amendments, formula grant funds to an           
  eligible State crime victim compensation program is based on 60 percent of the       
  amounts States expended during the fiscal year preceding the year of collections     
  for the Crime Victims Fund, other than amounts awarded for property damage. If       
  the sums available in the Fund for grants under this program are insufficient to     
  provide grants of 60 percent as provided above, grants from the sums available       
  will be made to each eligible crime victim compensation program so that all          
  such programs receive the same percentage of the amounts awarded by such             
  programs during the preceding fiscal year, other than amounts awarded for            
  property damage. A crime victim compensation program is an eligible crime            
  victim compensation program if (1) such program is operated by a State and           
582                                                                              11-08

  offers compensation to victims and survivors of victims of criminal violence,
  including drunk driving and domestic violence for: (A) medical expenses
  attributable to a physical injury resulting from a compensable crime, including
  expenses for mental health counseling and care; (B) loss of wages attributable to
  a physical injury resulting from a compensable crime; and (C) funeral expenses
  attributable to a death resulting from a compensable crime; (2) such program
  promotes victim cooperation with the reasonable requests of law enforcement
  authorities; (3) such State, possession or territory certifies that grants received
  under this program will not be used to supplant funds otherwise available to
  provide crime victim compensation; (4) such program, as to compensable crimes
  occurring within the State, possession or territory, makes compensation awards
  to victims who are nonresidents of the State, possession or territory on the basis
  of the same criteria used to make awards to victims who are residents of the
  State, possession or territory; (5) such program provides compensation to
  victims of Federal crimes occurring within the State on the same basis that such
  program provides compensation to victims of State crimes; (6) such program
  does not, except pursuant to rules issued by the program to prevent unjust
  enrichment of the offender, deny compensation to any victim because of that
  victim's familial relationship to the offender, or because of the sharing of a
  residence by the victim and the offender; (7) such program does not provide
  compensation to any person who has been convicted of an offense under Federal
  law with respect to any time period during which the person is delinquent in
  paying a fine, other monetary penalty, or restitution imposed for the offense; and
  (8) such program provides such other information and assurances related to the
  purposes of this section as the Director may reasonably require. Section
  1403(c), any amount of crime victim compensation that the applicant receives
  through a crime victim compensation program under this section shall not be
  included in the income of the applicant until the total amount of assistance that
  the applicant receives from all such programs is sufficient to fully compensate
  the applicant for losses suffered as a result of the crime. As used in this section;
  (1) the term "property damage" does not include damage to prosthetic devices,
  eyeglasses or other corrective lenses, or dental devices; (2) the term "medical
  expenses" includes, to the extent provided under the eligible crime victim
  compensation program, expenses for eyeglasses and other corrective lenses, for
  dental services and devices and prosthetic devices, and for services rendered in
  accordance with a method of healing recognized by the law of the State; (3) the
  term "compensable crime" means a crime the victims ofwhichareeligiblefor
  compensation under the eligible crime victim compensation program, and
  includes crimes involving terrorism, driving while intoxicated, and domestic
  violence; and (4) the term "State" includes the District of Columbia, the
  Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and any other possession or territory of the
  United States.
Applicant Eligibility:
  States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the U.S.
  Virgin Islands, Guam, and any other possession or territory of the United States
  who have an established eligible crime victim compensation program, and who
  meet the eligibility requirements discussed above.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Victims of crime that results in death or physical or personal injury and are
  determined eligible under the State victim compensation statute. State
  compensation statutes either declare that coverage extends generally to any
  crime resulting in physical or personal injury, or they list all specific crimes that
  can be covered.
Credentials/Documentation:
  The Governor designated State agencies are required to submit the following
  information and assurance along with the application for assistance: (1) a
  statement certified by the individual designated by the Governor to administer
  the VOCA crime victims compensation grant. This statement should specify the
  total amount of money spent by the program from State funding sources for
  crime victim compensation awards in the Federal fiscal year October 1, 2004-
  September 30, 2005; (2) the amount of such compensation paid for "property
  damage"; (3) the total amount and each source of revenue for the program; (4) a
  copy of the State statute or other legal authority establishing the program and
  any amendments thereto, and (5) an assurance that funds received under the Act
  will not be used to supplant State funds otherwise available for crime victim
  compensation. Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No.
  A 87 for State and local governments.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency in accordance
  with 28-CFR, Part 66 (Common Rule), must be used for this program. This
  program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  The applicant applies on-line at http://ojp.usdoj.gov under "Grants/Funding"
  once posted by the Office for Victims of Crime.
Award Procedure:
  An award is granted by the Director of the Office for Victims of Crime, the
  Office of Justice Programs. The award must be accepted and signed by the
  applicant with assurance of compliance with standard and special conditions of
  the grant award.
Deadlines:
