  Contact the Headquarters Office. Eligible State victim compensation programs        
  will be notified of the date for submission of applications through an OVC          
  listserv message.                                                                   
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  From 3 to 4 weeks.                                                                  
Appeals:                                                                              
  Hearing by the Assistant Attorney General, Office of Justice Programs.              
Renewals:                                                                             
  Awards are for the year of award plus 3 years. Applications will be annually.       
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  The formula will be based on 60 percent of the amounts awarded by the State         
  from State funding sources during the preceding fiscal year, other than amounts     
  awarded for property damage. The State must certify that the Federal funds          
  received under the program will not supplant State funds otherwise available for    
  victim compensation. Fund availability may require a base change. Section           
  1403(a)(2).                                                                         
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Compensation funds may be carried forward for obligation by the grantee for 3       
  years subsequent to the fiscal year of award. Funds are released via electronic     
  funds transfer. States must be enrolled in the Automated Clearinghouse (ACH)        
  Vendor Express Program to request any Federal funds.                                
Reports:                                                                              
  Both quarterly and final financial status reports are required as stipulated in the 
  effective edition of the OJP Financial Guide. In addition, an annual program        
  performance report to OVC on the effect that the Federal funds had on the           
  program will be required as stipulated in the Program Guidelines/Rules.             
Audits:                                                                               
  All organizations that expend $300,000 or more in federal funds per                 
  organizational fiscal year must have a single audit for that year in accordance     
  with OMB Circular No. A-133, as amended. The audit report and transmittal           
  letter must be submitted within 9 months from the end of the state fiscal year.     
Records:                                                                              
  The annual program reporting requirement and accounts concerning the                
  expenditures of the award shall be maintained during the award and retained for     
  three years thereafter.                                                             
Account Identification:                                                               
  15-5041-0-2-754.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  FY 07 $165,716,000; FY 08 $268,064,000; and FY 09 est not available.                
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  Each State receives 60 percent of its prior year payout of State compensation       
  funds.                                                                              
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  Since Fiscal Year 1986, awards totaled $1,868,620,429.                              
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Program Guidelines/Rules are published in the Federal Register. The OJP             
  Financial Guide is available at http://www.usdoj.gov/oc, or call the Office of the  
  Comptroller, Customer Service Center at (1-800) 458-0786 to request a copy.         
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Toni L. Thomas, Director, State Compensation and Assistance Division, Office        
  for Victims of Crime, Department of Justice, Washington, DC 20531.                  
  Telephone: (202) 616-3579. Use the same number for FTS.                             
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/ovc/.                                                      
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  16.575, Crime Victim Assistance.                                                    
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Program funds State formula grants to be used for crime victim compensation         
  only.                                                                               
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Criteria are established by the Victims of Crime Act of 1984, as amended, and       
  Program Guidelines/Rules published in the Federal Register.                         
                                                                                      
16.578 FEDERAL SURPLUS PROPERTY TRANSFER                                              
                                                                                      
PROGRAM                                                                               
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS, BUREAU OF JUSTICE ASSISTANCE,                           
  DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE                                                               
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended, and           
  codified at 40 U.S.C. Section 553(b)(1)(2). Property for correctional facility, law 
  enforcement, and emergency management response purposes.                            
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To facilitate the possible no cost conveyance, by the General Services              
  Administration, to State and local governments, of surplus real and related         
  personal property determined by the Attorney General to be required for             
  correctional facility use, under programs or projects for the care or rehabilitation
                                                                                      


                                                                                 11-08
  of criminal offenders, and for law enforcement purposes.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Sale, Exchange, or Donation of Property and Goods.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Deed of Conveyance. The Deed of Conveyance of any surplus real and related
  personal property disposed of under this program - (1) shall provide that all of
  the property be used and maintained for the purpose for which it was conveyed
  in perpetuity, and that if the property ceases to be used or maintained for that
  purpose, all or any portion of the property shall, in its then existing condition, at
  the option of the Government, revert to the Government; and (2) may contain
  additional terms, reservations, restrictions, and conditions that the Administrator
  determines are necessary to safeguard the interests of the Government.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State governments, and political subdivision or instrumentality of State
  governments. Under this program, the term "State" is defined by 40 U.S.C.
  Section 553(a) to include the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam,
  American Samoa, the Virgin Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, The
  Marshall Islands, Palau, and the Northern Mariana Islands.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  State, local and territorial governments, that are engaged in activities to control
  or reduce crime and juvenile delinquency or the enforcement of criminal law or
  the care or rehabilitation of criminal offenders.
Credentials/Documentation:
  DOJ/OJP/BJA application for a correctional facility use or law enforcement
  purpose determination.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Notify BJA and GSA or DOD by letter, of the State's interest in an identified
  property. This program requires coverage under E.O. 12372, Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs. Applicants interested in applying for property
  under the Base Realignment and Closure Act (BRAC) must consult with their
  designated Local Redevelopment Authority for the community's plan for
  economic recovery. A list of the recognized LRAs can be viewed at:
  http://www.oea.gov/OEAWeb.nsf/Home?OpenForm.
Application Procedure:
  Submission of a completed DOJ/OJP/BJA application kit, including
  environmental information.
Award Procedure:
  (1) Applicant must be a State or local governmental entity; (2) applicant must
  propose a correctional facility use or law enforcement purpose consistent with
  the requirements set forth in 40 U.S.C. Section 553(b)(1) and (2).
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  None.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  None.
Reports:
  Under 40 U.S.C. Section 553(e), the Administrator of the General Services
  Administration determines and enforces compliance with the terms contained in
  the instrument by which the transfer or conveyance is made.
Audits:
  Performance Measures: To assist in fulfilling the Departments responsibilities
  under the Government Performance and Results Act (GPRA), Public Law 103-
  62, applicants who receive funding under this solicitation must provide data that
  measures the results of their work.
Records:
  None.
Account Identification:
  15-0401-0-1-754.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $0; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  None.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Twenty-seven properties have been conveyed to State and/or to local government
  entities for correctional purposes and seven have been conveyed for law
  enforcement purposes. A total of 40 determinations by the Assistant Attorney
  General have been made.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  None.
Regional or Local Office:
  General Services Administration: www.propertydisposal.gsa.gov. Office of
  Economic Adjustment: http://www.defenselink.mil/brac/.
Headquarters Office:
  Bureau of Justice Assistance, 810 Seventh Street, N.W., 4th Floor, Washington,
                                                                                     583
