  DC 20531. Contact: M. Berry, Senior Project Manager, Telephone: (202) 616-         
  6500 or (1-866) 859-2687.                                                          
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  Federal Surplus Real Property Conveyance Program:                                  
  http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/bja.                                                      
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  None.                                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  None.                                                                              
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  (1) Applicant must be a governmental entity; (2) Applicant must use property for   
  viable program for the care and/or rehabilitation of criminal offenders; (3) The   
  General Services Administration determines that a correctional purpose is the      
  highest and best use for the applied for property.                                 
                                                                                     
16.579 EDWARD BYRNE MEMORIAL FORMULA GRANT                                           
                                                                                     
PROGRAM                                                                              
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS, BUREAU OF JUSTICE ASSISTANCE,                          
  DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE                                                              
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, as amended, Title I, 42        
  U.S.C. 50 et seq. Public Law 109-162, Title XI - Department of Justice             
  Reauthorization, Subtitle B-Improving the Department of Justice's Grant            
  Programs, Chapter 1-Assisting Law Enforcement and Criminal Justice Agencies,       
  Sec. 1111. Merger of Byrne Grant Program and Local Law Enforcement Block           
  Grant Program.                                                                     
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To reduce and prevent illegal drug activity, crime, and violence and to improve    
  the functioning of the criminal justice system.                                    
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Formula Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Funds may be used to support 29 specified purpose areas as outlined in the         
  authorizing legislation. Funds may be used to provide additional personnel,        
  equipment, facilities (including upgraded and additional law enforcement crime     
  laboratories), personnel training and equipment for more widespread                
  apprehension, prosecution and adjudication of persons who violate state and        
  local laws relating to the production, possession and transfer of controlled       
  substances and to improve the criminal justice system. The Act restricts the use   
  of these funds for supplanting state and local funds and land acquisition, and     
  construction other than penal or correctional facilities.                          
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  All States, the District of Columbia, Guam, American Samoa, the                    
  Commonwealths of Puerto Rico, Virgin Islands and Northern Mariana Islands.         
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  State and units of local governments.                                              
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State        
  and local governments.                                                             
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372 "Intergovernmental          
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official    
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information 
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance. The   
                                                                                     
  standard application forms (SF-424) as furnished by the Federal agency in

                                                                                     
  accordance with 28 CFR, Part 66 (Common Rule), must be used with this

  program.                                                                           
                                                                                     
Application Procedure:

                                                                                     
  Applications are submitted to BJA following the criteria set out in the Act, OJP

                                                                                     
  Financial Guide, and Byrne Formula Grant Program Guidance. This program is

  excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-110. All applications must         
                                                                                     
  be submitted electronically by the Office of Justice Programs Grants

                                                                                     
  Management System (GMS) at https://grants.ojp.usdoj.gov. Applications or

                                                                                     
  supplemental materials received by facsimile or postal mail will not be accepted.

                                                                                     
Award Procedure:

                                                                                     
  Letter to the Governor upon approval by BJA, with copies of the grant award

                                                                                     
  sent to the designated State Administrative Agency. One copy of the grant

  award must be signed by Chief Executive's designee and returned to BJA.

Deadlines:                                                                           
  See the program solicitation or contact the Department of Justice, Office of       
  Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Assistance, for application deadline at 1-

                                                                                     
  866-859-2687 or by e-mail at: AskBJA@usdoj.gov. Applications must be

  submitted within 60 days of the signing of the appropriation by the President.     
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

  The State Administering Agency will receive a grant award notification, no later   
  than 45 days after receipt of application. BJA will also notify the State          
  congressional representatives, the governor and State U.S. attorneys.              
Appeals:                                                                             


584                                                                            11-08

  See 28 C.F.R., Part 18.
Renewals:
  Annual application is required.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Each participant State will receive a base amount of $500,000 or 25 percent of
  the amount available for the program, whichever is greater, with the remaining
  funds allocated to each State on the basis of the State's relative share of total
  U.S. population. If a State elects not to participate, all funds may be awarded
  directly to local units of government and combinations of units of local
  governments within the State. (a) Funds from the Act may be used to pay up to
  75 percent of the cost of a program or project. The remaining nonfederal share
  will be provided in cash. Match for the formula grant programs will be provided
  for on a project-by-project basis, State-wide basis, unit-of-government basis, or a
  combination of the above. Requests will be contained in the application. (b)
  Funds distributed to an Indian tribe which performs law enforcement functions
  (as determined by the Secretary of the Interior) for any program or project
  described in the Act shall be 100 percent of such costs.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  48 months/4 years.
Reports:
  Financial reports are required quarterly, as required by the OJP financial guide.
  An annual performance report is also required.
Audits:
  Payments and transactions are subject to audits by the Government
  Accountability Office, Department of Justice's Office of the Inspector General,
  State or local government auditors, and auditors from independent public
  accounting firms. Jurisdictions must follow their local policies and procedures,
  including maintenance of reliable and accurate accounting systems, record
  keeping, and systems of internal control. All organizations that expend financial
  assistance of $500,000 or more in any fiscal year must have a single audit for
  that year in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-133, as amended, unless the
  audit condition on the award says otherwise. These audits are due to the
  cognizant Federal agency not later than 9 months after the end of the grantee's
  fiscal year. Performance Measures: To assist in fulfilling the Department's
  responsibilities under the Government Performance and Results Act (GPRA),
  P.L. 103-62, applicants who receive funding under this solicitation must provide
  data that measures the results of their work.
Records:
  Grantee must keep complete records on disposition of funds.
Account Identification:
  15-0404-0-1-754.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $0; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Varies. This is a formula based funding program.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  See State Annual Reports.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  The OJP Financial Guide, Byrne Formula Grant Program Guidance.
Regional or Local Office:
  Please contact your local State Administrative Agency (SAA).
Headquarters Office:
  Office of Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Assistance, Department of Justice,
  Washington, DC 20531. Contact: Programs Office. Telephone: (202) 616-6500
  or (1-866) 859-2687.
Web Site Address:
  Edward Byrne Memorial Local Law Enforcement Justice Assistance Grant
  (JAG) http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/BJA/grant/jag.html.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  16.580, Edward Byrne Memorial State and Local Law Enforcement Assistance
  Discretionary Grants Program; 16.738, Edward Byrne Memorial Justice
  Assistance Grant Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Multi-Jurisdictional Drug Enforcement Task Forces, Criminal Justice System
  Improvement, Violent Crime Prevention, DARE Education, Community
  Policing Training and Technical Assistance Projects.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Applications are reviewed to determine compliance with applicable guideline
  requirements.
16.580 EDWARD BYRNE MEMORIAL STATE AND LOCAL
LAW ENFORCEMENT ASSISTANCE DISCRETIONARY
GRANTS PROGRAM
   (Byrne Discretionary Program)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS, BUREAU OF JUSTICE ASSISTANCE,
  DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
AUTHORIZATION:
