  seeking crime victim compensation benefits. For the purpose of grants               
  authorized for assistance to victims of federal crime, services includes (a)        
  training of law enforcement personnel in the delivery of services to victims of     
  Federal crime; (b) preparation, publication, and distribution of informational      
  materials, setting forth services offered to victims of crime; and concerning       
  services for victims of Federal crime for use by Federal law enforcement and        
  other responsible Federal officials; and (c) salaries of personnel who provide      
  services to victims of crime, to the extent that these personnel provide such       
  services.                                                                           
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Criteria will vary depending on the grant or grant program. Generally, eligible     
  applicants may include American Indian/Alaska Native Tribes and tribal              
  organizations, States, United States Attorneys' offices, universities and colleges, 
  eligible public agencies that provide victim services and private nonprofit         
  agencies. Applicants for Tribal Victim Assistance grants must be an Indian          
  Tribe, Tribal organization, partnership or nonprofit organization that provides     
  direct services to victims of crime in Indian Country.                              
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Eligible victim assistance agencies. Eligibility depends on the nature of the grant 
  but may include a wide variety of public and private nonprofit agencies.            
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Competitive applications under this program must be submitted electronically        
  via Grants.gov. OVC develops solicitations and application guidelines that          
  includes funding strategy, eligibility requirements, required certifications that   
  must be submitted at a time specified by the Office for Victims of Crime, Office    
  of Justice Programs and must contain the following certification and assurances:    
  (1) assure that the applicant will provide such accounting, auditing, monitoring    
  and evaluation procedures as may be necessary, and keep such records as the         
  Office of Justice Programs may prescribe, to assure fiscal control, proper          
  management and efficient disbursement of Federal funds; (2) assure that the         
  applicant will adhere to the audit and financial management requirements set        
  forth in the effective edition of the OJP Financial Guide; (3) assure that the      
  applicant will comply with all applicable nondiscrimination requirements            
  including civil rights compliance, non-discrimination against eligible applicants   
  that are faith or community-based organizations, services to persons with           
  Limited English Proficiency, and protection of human research subjects; (4)         
  certify that the applicant will comply with certifications regarding Lobbying,      
  Debarment, Suspension, and Drug-Free Workplace Requirements (OJP Form               
  4061/6); and other responsibility matters; and, (5) certify that the information in 
  the application is correct and that the applicant will comply with all applicable   
  provisions of the Victims of Crime Act and other Federal laws, (including           
  subtitle A, Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) 1990)             
  regulations, and circulars. Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB         
  Circular No. A-87 or OMB Circular No. A-133. Applicants from other types of         
  agencies will use forms to be provided by OVC.                                      
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  The standard application form furnished by the Federal agency in accordance         
  with 28 CFR Part 66 (Common Rule) must be used for all grants made by OVC.          
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                            
Application Procedure:                                                                
  In accordance with the Common Rule, Standard Form 424 must be submitted             
  electronically at Grants.gov by nonfederal agencies in applying for funding         
  under this program. Forms for funds other than grants or for use by Federal         
  agencies will be supplied by OVC. This program is excluded from coverage            
  under OMB Circular No. A-110.                                                       
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Generally awards will be made on a competitive basis with applications              
  reviewed by a panel of subject matter experts who will assess application           
  submissions based on established criteria and forward a recommendation to the       
  Director. The Assistant Attorney General, Office of Justice Programs has final      
  approval authority.                                                                 
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Deadlines are announced by OVC in as it releases solicitations throughout the       
  fiscal year. Information is available only on-line at the OVC homepage at           
  http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/ovc/.                                                      
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  From 4 to 6 months.                                                                 
Appeals:                                                                              
  Hearing by the Assistant Attorney General, Office of Justice Programs.              
Renewals:                                                                             
  Awards range from 6 to 24 months, unless otherwise noted. Supplements are           
  considered on a case by case basis. (See OVC guidelines for the Antiterrorism       
  and Emergency Assistance Program for Terrorism and Mass Violence Crimes.)           
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  There are no formula or matching requirements for discretionary funding, unless     
  stated in the funding applications. The State Victim Assistance Academy grants      
  require a 25 percent "in-kind" match. The Tribal Victim Assistance                  
  Discretionary Grants requires a 10 percent "in-kind" match, which increases to      
  15 percent and 25 percent, respectively, for the 2nd and 3rd years of the award.    
  The Counseling for Crime victims in Indian Country by Faith-Based                   


586                                                                             11-08

  Organizations grants require a 10 percent "in-kind" match per year. Federal
  agencies are not expected to provide a financial contribution, but in general are
  asked to demonstrate a commitment to continuing the funded effort after OVC
  funding is terminated.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Any amount awarded that remains unspent at the end of a fiscal year in which
  the award is made may be expended for the purpose for which the award is made
  at any time during the three succeeding fiscal years, at the end of which period,
  any remaining unobligated sums shall be available for deposit into the
  emergency reserve fund referred to in subsection (d)(5) of the VOCA at the
  discretion of the Director. Any remaining unobligated sums shall be returned to
  the Fund. Funds are released via the Electronic Transfer System (formerly the
  Letter of Credit System) on an as needed basis to the Recipient.
Reports:
  Quarterly financial reports and semi-annual progress reports will be required as
  stipulated in the effective edition of the OJP Financial Guide. A final financial
  and program report also will be required.
Audits:
  All organizations that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in any
  fiscal year must have a single audit for that year in accordance with OMB
  Circular No. A-133, as amended, unless the audit condition on the award says
  otherwise. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency not later than 9
  months after the end of the grantee's fiscal year.
Records:
  Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other
  records pertinent to a grant shall be retained for a period of three years.
Account Identification:
  15-5041-0-2-754.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $675,000,000; FY 08 $590,000,000; and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  For the Federal Crime Victims Division, approximately $40,000 to $500,000.
  For the Program Development and Dissemination Division from $25,000 to
  $1,000,000 with an average of $150,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  OVC supports the development of training, technical assistance, and
  demonstration projects to expand and improve the quality of services to crime
  victims. In recent years, OVC has directed substantial funding to developing
  resources for the field that will assist victim advocates and other allied
  practitioners in reaching and serving victims from populations that have been
  largely underserved including victims with disabilities, immigrant victims,
  victims in rural areas or large urban centers, and victims from cultural, ethnic
  and racial minority groups. Serving child and adult victims of sexual assault
  remains problematic for many communities, and OVC continues to support
  several training and technical resources that foster the replication of Sexual
  Assault Response Teams across the nation, OVC also funds a biennial Sexual
  Assault Response Team (SART) National Training Conference to provide multi-
  disciplinary training to SART members. Various other solicitations provide
  funding for projects in Indian Country. These grants support victim assistance
  programs for Indian tribes under Federal criminal justice jurisdiction, including
  28 victim assistance programs, one elder abuse demonstration program, a
  training and technical assistance grant for OVC's American Indian/Alaska
  Native grantees, tribal CASA programs, grants to support faith-based
  organizations which provide counseling services to American Indian/Alaska
  Native crime victims, and a project to provide training to tribal leaders on the
  critical role of their support of tribal victim assistance programs. OVC also has
  funded the planning and implementation of State Victim Assistance Academies
  to meet the entry-level educational and training needs of a broad range of victim
  assistance providers and allied professionals who work directly with victims of
  crime. OVC also supports public awareness initiatives on crime victims' rights
  and issues, including the annual dissemination of a resource kit to the field to
  assist their activities during National Crime Victims Rights Week (NCVRW)
  and the sponsorship of an annual NCVRW awards ceremony for exemplary
  service providers and organizations. During FY 2005, OVC implemented an
  innovative strategy to provide top-quality Public Service Announcements
  (PSAs) on crime victims' rights and services to every television broadcaster in
  the nation, incorporating the ability to track when the PSAs are aired and the
  estimated audience and audience demographics. During FY 2006, OVC
  discretionary funding continues to be directed at several areas, including the
  faith-based response to crime victims, implementation and enforcement of
  victims' rights, underserved crime victims in both urban and rural settings, a
  demonstration program to assist victims of identify theft, victim assistance in
  Indian Country, working with grass roots organizations to identify and replicate
  promising practices in serving victims, as well as the development and
  dissemination of information and training for a wide variety of practitioners who
  work with crime victims. In the past 3 years, OVC has funded several key
  projects that focus on strengthening collaboration and cross-training between
  victim assistance and faith-based providers, in order to improve services for
  crime victims. In FY07, OVC has funded discretionary programs to assist
  victims of identity theft and financial fraud.udi Arabia, Afghanistan and Iraq
