  (e.g. bombing of UN Headquarters in Baghdad.). Assistance has included toll-        
  free information lines, Family web sites, informational briefings, travel to        
  criminal Justice proceedings, and mental health counseling. In addition, OVC        
  works in liaison with other Federal agencies to coordinate services for victims of  
  terrorism; has worked with the Center for Mental Health Services at HHS to          
  develop training for mental health service providers on assisting victims of        
  terrorism and mass violence; is working                                             
  withtheOfficeforDomestic Preparedness to provide training to enhance the            
  capacity of first responders to deal effectively with victims of terrorism; provides
  funding for a community-based assessment and planning process to help states        
  and local communities design and implement a strategic plan for responding to       
  victims of criminal mass violence; and provides funding to track kidnapped          
  children taken across international borders (in parental abductions) to help their  
  left-behind parents attend court hearings and return to the US with their           
  children. In FY 2006, OVC will continue many of these projects as well as           
  setting aside money in the Antiterrorism Emergency Reserve to respond to future     
  incidents of terrorism and mass violence occurring both within the United States    
  and abroad and to fund an International Terrorism Victim Expense                    
  Reimbursement Program.                                                              
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Current solicitations and application guidelines and the current edition of the     
  OJP Financial Guide, are available on line at the OVC webpage at                    
  http://www.ovc.gov.                                                                 
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Office for Victims of Crime, Office of Justice Programs, Department of Justice,     
  810 Seventh Street, N.W., Washington, DC 20531. Telephone: (202) 307-               
  5983.                                                                               
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.ovc.gov.                                                                 
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  16.321, Antiterrorism Emergency Reserve; 16.320, Services for Trafficking           
  Victims; 16.575, Crime Victim Assistance.                                           
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Potential projects include, but are not limited to: demonstrations programs that    
  assist victims in rural communities or those programs meeting the needs of          
  special populations such as immigrant victims, victims with disabilities, and       
  victims of identity theft and financial fraud; training and technical assistance for
  States and local communities to help when responding to terrorism and mass          
  violence; training to improve or expand victim services provided by particular      
  groups of professionals such as judges, prosecutors, law enforcement                
  professionals, and medical personnel.                                               
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  General criteria for selecting proposals are spelled out in the Victims of Crime    
  Act, 42 U.S.C. Section 10601-10604 (Supp. 1981). Additional criteria may be         
  developed by the Office for Victims of Crime and will be published in the OJP       
  grant packages.                                                                     
                                                                                      
16.583 CHILDREN'S JUSTICE ACT PARTNERSHIPS FOR                                        
                                                                                      
INDIAN COMMUNITIES                                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS, OFFICE FOR VICTIMS OF CRIME,                            
  DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE                                                               
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Victims of Crime Act of 1984, as amended, Public Law 98-473; Children's             
  Justice and Assistance Act of 1986, Public Law 99-401, as amended; Anti-Drug        
  Abuse Act of 1988, Public Law 100-690, Section 1402 (g)(L); Departments of          
  Commerce, Justice, State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations        
  Act of 1995; Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994; Subtitle        
  C, Public Law 104-132; Anti-Terrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of            
  1996; Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Enforcement Act of 2000;                 
  Omnibus Consolidated Appropriations Act of 1997, Public Law 104-298;                
                                                                                      
  Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of 2000, Public Law 106-

                                                                                      
  386.

                                                                                      
OBJECTIVES:

  Fifteen percent of the first $20 million of funds from the Crime Victims Fund       
  that are transferred to the Department of Health and Human Services as part of      
  the Children's Justice Act are to be statutorily reserved by the Office for Victims 
                                                                                      
  of Crime (OVC) to make grants for the purpose of assisting Native American

                                                                                      
  Indian tribes in developing, establishing, and operating programs designed to

  improve the handling of child abuse cases, particularly cases of child sexual       
                                                                                      
  abuse, in a manner which limits additional trauma to the child victim and

                                                                                      
  improves the investigation and prosecution of cases of child abuse.

                                                                                      
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants; Direct Payments for Specified Use.                                  
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Funds are available specifically for the purpose of assisting Indian tribes in      
  developing, establishing, and operating programs designed to improve (a) the



                                                                                 11-08
  handling of child abuse cases, particularly cases of child sexual abuse, in a
  manner which limits additional trauma to the victim and (b) the investigation
  and prosecution of cases of child abuse, particularly child sexual abuse.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Federally recognized Indian tribal governments and nonprofit Indian
  organizations that provide services to American Indians and Alaska Natives.
  Specific criteria will vary depending on the grant.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  American Indian youth who are victims of child abuse and/or child sexual abuse.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applications must be on Standard Form 424 at a time specified by the Office for
  Victims of Crime, Office of Justice Programs and must: (1) contain OJP Form
  4061/6 (Certifications Regarding Lobbying; Debarment, Suspension and Other
  Responsibility Matters; and Drug-Free Workplace Requirements); (2) assure that
  the grantee will provide such accounting, auditing, monitoring and evaluation
  procedures as may be necessary, and keep such records as the Office of Justice
  Programs may prescribe, to assure fiscal control, proper management and
  efficient disbursement of Federal funds; (3) assure that the Grantee will submit
  to the Office of Justice Programs a semiannual program performance report of
  data and information as required; (4) assure that the Grantee will adhere to the
  audit and financial management requirements set forth in the effective edition of
  the OJP Financial Guide, and (5) certify that the information in the application
  is correct and that the Grantee will comply with all applicable provisions of the
  Victims of Crime Act and other Federal laws, regulations, and circulars,
  including Subtitle A, Title II of the Americans With Disabilities Act (ADA)
  1990.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The standard application form furnished by the Federal agency in accordance
  with 28 CFR, Part 66 (Common Rule) must be used for all grants made by OVC.
   This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  In accordance with the Common Rule, Standard Form 424 must be submitted by
  nonfederal agencies applying for funding under this program. Competitive
  solicitations are announced on Grants.gov.
Award Procedure:
  The Director, Office for Victims of Crime, Office of Justice Programs has final
  approval authority. Grants are made directly to Indian tribes as defined in
  Section 450(b) of the Indian Self Determination and Education Assistance Act.
  Awards may also be granted to nonprofit organizations that provide services to
  American Indians or State or local governments. Generally, awards will be made
  on a competitive basis with applications reviewed by a panel of subject matter
  experts who will assess application submissions based on established criteria
  and forward a recommendation to the Director.
Deadlines:
  Deadlines are listed as part of the solicitation at
  www.ojp.usdoj.gov/fundopps.htm and on Grants.gov. To have your name
  placed on OVC's mailing list, contact the Office for Victims of Crime, 810
  Seventh Street, NW., Washington, DC 20531. Telephone: (202) 307-5983.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 4 to 6 months.
Appeals:
  Hearing by the Assistant Attorney General, Office of Justice Programs.
Renewals:
  Awards range from 12 to 36 months. Renewals are considered on a case-by
  case-basis.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  In-kind match is required as follows: 10 percent each year.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grants are generally awarded for a 12 to 36 month time period.
Reports:
  Quarterly and final financial reports and semi- annual program performance
  reports will be required as stipulated in the effective edition of the OJP Financial
  Guide. A final financial and program report also will be required.
Audits:
  All organizations that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in any
  fiscal year must have a single audit for that year in accordance with OMB
  Circular No. A-133, as amended, unless the audit condition on the award says
  otherwise. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency not later than 9
  months after the end of the grantee's fiscal year.
Records:
  Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other
  records pertinent to a grant shall be retained for a period of three years.
Account Identification:
  15-5041-0-2-754.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $3,000,000; FY 08 $3,000,000; and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  None.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Seventy-five tribal programs to improve the investigation and prosecution of
                                                                                    587
