  child sexual abuse cases have been funded.                                           
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  Applications and current edition of the Financial Guide are available by writing     
  to the Office for Victims of Crime, Office of Justice Programs, Department of        
  Justice, 810 Seventh Street, N.W., Washington, DC 20531.                             
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  None.                                                                                
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Renee Williams, CJA Program Manager, Office for Victims of Crime, Office of          
  Justice Programs, Department of Justice, 810 Seventh Street, N.W., Washington,       
  DC 20531. Telephone: (202) 616-3218 or (202) 616-9559. E-mail:                       
  Renee.Williams@usdoj.gov.                                                            
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.usdoj.gov.                                                                
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  16.582, Crime Victim Assistance/Discretionary Grants.                                
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  Tribes will implement a variety of programs to improve the way in which child        
  sexual abuse cases are handled in Indian country. Examples of some of the            
  activities are: development of written protocols between agencies to minimize        
  the number of child interviews and improve case management; provision of             
  child advocacy in the court process; reduction in the amount of time required to     
  investigate cases of child sexual abuse; revision of tribal codes to include child   
  abuse; establishment of special multidisciplinary child interviewing teams;          
  provision of specialized training for investigators and judicial personnel; and      
  hiring of staff to increase the numbers of child sexual abuse cases prosecuted in    
  tribal, State, and Federal courts. CJA funds will also be used for training and      
  technical assistance for tribes in implementing the grants awarded.                  
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  General criteria for selecting proposals are spelled out in the Anti-Drug Abuse      
  Act of 1988, Public Law 100-690, Section 1402. Additional criteria will be           
  developed by the Office for Victims of Crime and will be announced at                
  www.ojp.usdoj.gov/fundopps.htm.                                                      
                                                                                       
16.585 DRUG COURT DISCRETIONARY GRANT                                                  
                                                                                       
PROGRAM                                                                                
      (Drug Court)                                                                     
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  BUREAU OF JUSTICE ASSISTANCE, OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS,                            
  DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE                                                                
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  The Drug Courts Program is authorized under Title I, Part EE, of the Omnibus         
  Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, Public Law 90-351d, Title I, 82          
  Stat. 197, as amended by the 21st Century Department of Justice Appropriations       
  Authorization Act, Public Law 107-273, Division B, Title II, Subtitle C, 116         
  Stat. 1758 (2002).                                                                   
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  The Drug Court Discretionary Grant provides financial and technical assistance       
  to states, state courts, local courts, units of local government, and Indian tribal  
  governments to develop and implement treatment drug courts that effectively          
  integrate substance abuse treatment, mandatory drug testing, sanctions and           
  incentives, and transitional services in a judicially supervised court setting with  
  jurisdiction over nonviolent, substance-abusing offenders.                           
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Allowable uses of funds are outlined in the Drug Court Program Guideline             
  available from the Department of Justice Response Center. Drug Court                 
  Programs under Title V will be for nonviolent adult and juvenile offenders and       
  involve early and continuous judicial supervision over the nonviolent substance      
  abusing offenders and the integrated administration of sanctions and services        
  including: (1) mandatory periodic testing for the use of controlled substances or    
  other addictive substances during any period of supervised release or probation;     
  (2) substance abuse treatment for each participant; (3) diversion, probation, or     
  other supervised release involving the possibility of prosecution, confinement, or   
  incarceration based on noncompliance with program requirements; and (4)              
  programmatic, offender management and aftercare services.                            
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Grants can be given to States, State courts, local courts, units of local            
  government and Indian tribal governments, acting directly or through                 
  agreements with other public or private entities. Applicants may choose to           
  submit joint applications with other eligible jurisdictions for statewide, regional, 
  and multi-jurisdictional drug court programs. With joint applications, one           
  organization must be designated as the applicant and any coapplicants                
  designated accordingly. The applicant organization must be eligible and the          
  other agencies/organizations must provide supporting documentation. All              
  applicants must demonstrate that they have the management and financial              
  capabilities to effectively plan and implement projects of the size and scope        


588                                                                              11-08

  described in the application kit. Nonprofit and for-profit agencies are not eligible
  applicants. For an application from a subunit of government (e.g., county
  probation department, district attorney's office, pretrial services agency) to be
  considered, it must be designated by letter as representing an eligible applicant
  (described above). For example, the county court or county executive may
  designate the county probation or county district attorney's office as its
  representative for the purpose of application. In this instance, the applicant
  continues to be the designating State, court system, or unit of local government.
  The county probation, district attorney's office, or other designated subunit, is
  the organization authorized to submit an application on behalf of the eligible
  applicant.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  States, local governments, Indian tribal governments, public or private entities.
Credentials/Documentation:
  The application must include: Application for Federal Assistance (Standard
  Form 424); Applicant Information page; a one-page program abstract
  summarizing the goals and objectives of the grant request; program narrative;
  letters of support; detailed budget and budget narrative; administrative
  requirements; and assurances and certifications. See program announcement for
  more information.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Prospective applicants may view the preapplication requirements by visiting the
  web site at http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/BJA/grant/drugcourts.html. This program
  is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  All competitive grant applications must be submitted electronically through the
  Grant Management System (GMS) at http://grants.ojp.usdoj.gov. Applications
  or supplemental materials received by facsimile or postal mail will not be
  accepted.
Award Procedure:
  An award is granted by the Assistant Attorney General, Office of Justice
  Programs, and must be accepted by the applicant agency or institution according
  to the special conditions of the grant or cooperative agreement.
Deadlines:
  See the program solicitation or contact the Department of Justice, Office of
  Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Assistance, for application deadlines.
  Telephone: 1-866-859-2687 or by e-mail at AskBJA@usdoj.gov.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 60 days.
Appeals:
  Determined by the Assistant Attorney General, OJP.
Renewals:
  Grants can be extended by submitting a written justification for an extension to
  the Bureau of Justice Assistance office for review. Extensions are subject to
  approval by the Bureau of Justice Assistance and renewals by congressional
  funding.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The Federal share of a grant received under this subtitle may not exceed 75
  percent of the total cost of an applicant's projected budget. The matching
  requirement is a 25 percent match provided by the applicant. A portion of the
  match must be cash. This is required by statute; the term "portion" is not
  defined.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Project duration period will be up to 3 years for Implementation Grants, up to 2
  years for Enhancement Grants.
Reports:
  Reports required include: "Fiscal Reports", which consist of quarterly budget
  expenditure reports, "Progress Reports", which consist of semi-annual program
  progress reports, and the Drug Court Grantee Data Collection Survey.
Audits:
  Payments and transactions are subject to audits by the Government
  Accountability Office, Department of Justice's Office of the Inspector General,
  State or local government auditors, and auditors from independent public
  accounting firms. Jurisdictions must follow their local policies and procedures,
  including maintenance of reliable and accurate accounting systems, record
  keeping, and systems of internal control. All organizations that expend financial
  assistance of $500,000 or more in any fiscal year must have a single audit for
  that year in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-133, as amended, unless the
  audit condition on the award says otherwise. These audits are due to the
  cognizant Federal agency not later than 9 months after the end of the grantee's
  fiscal year. Performance Measures: To assist in fulfilling the Departments
  responsibilities under the Government Performance and Results Act (GPRA),
  P.L. 103-62, applicants who receive funding under this solicitation must provide
  data that measures the results of their work.
Records:
  All grantees are required to establish and maintain accounting systems and
  financial records in order to account for funds awarded to them.
Account Identification:
  15-0404-0-1-754.
Obligations:
