  FY 07 $9,872,280; FY 08 $15,200,000; and FY 09 est not available.                  
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  Up to $500,000 for Implementation Grants; and up to $300,000 for                   
  Enhancement grants.                                                                
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  The overall purpose of this program is to assist jurisdictions in the development  
  and implementation of new and existing drug courts. Through early court            
  intervention and substance abuse treatment, drug courts help reduce recidivism     
  among these types of offenders. Funds will be made available to support the        
  planning process, conduct implementation, or offer additional support to pre-      
  existing drug court programs.                                                      
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  Office of Justice Programs Financial Guide.                                        
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Office of Justice Programs, Department of Justice, 810 Seventh Street, N.W.,       
  Washington, DC 20531. Contact: Eunice Pierre, Policy Advisor, Bureau of            
  Justice Assistance. Telephone: (202) 616-6500 or (1-866) 859-2687 or E-mail:       
  AskBJA@usdoj.gov.                                                                  
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/bja.                                                      
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  16.579, Edward Byrne Memorial Formula Grant Program; 16.580, Edward                
  Byrne Memorial State and Local Law Enforcement Assistance Discretionary            
  Grants Program; 93.959, Block Grants for Prevention and Treatment of               
  Substance Abuse; 16.523, Juvenile Accountability Block Grants.                     
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  Please visit web site address for current information.                             
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Criteria are described in the OJP Program Announcement.                            
                                                                                     
16.586 VIOLENT OFFENDER INCARCERATION AND                                            
TRUTH IN SENTENCING INCENTIVE GRANTS                                                 
                                                                                     
   (Prison Grants)                                                                   
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  BUREAU OF JUSTICE ASSISTANCE, OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS,                          
  DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE                                                              
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994, Title II, Subtitle A, as    
  amended, Public Law 103-322; 42 U.S.C. 13701 et seq.                               
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To provide funds to individual States and States organized as regional compacts    
  to build or expand 1) correctional facilities to increase the bed capacity for the 
  confinement of Part 1 violent offenders; 2) temporary or permanent correctional    
  facilities including facilities on military bases, prison barges and boot camps for
  the confinement of nonviolent offenders for the purpose of freeing prison space    
  for violent offenders; 3) jails.                                                   
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Formula Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Grant funds may be used to build or expand permanent or temporary                  
  correctional facilities to increase bed space for the confinement of adult and     
  juvenile violent offenders. Up to 15 percent of a State's formula grant may be     
  awarded to counties and other units of local government to construct, develop,     
  expand, modify or improve jails and other correctional facilities. Under exigent   
  circumstances, funds may be used to increase capacity for the confinement of       
  nonviolent juvenile offenders. Beginning with fiscal year 1999 grant funds, ten    
  percent of the award may be used to implement drug testing policies that meet      
  the Attorney General's Guidelines.                                                 
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  States and States organized in multi-State compacts are eligible to apply. State   
  means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth     
  of Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam, and        
  the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. All awards are made to the       
  State Office. Local units of government must apply directly to the States for      
  grant funds.                                                                       
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  State and local correctional agencies.                                             
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  The applicant must submit a completed Application for Federal Assistance           
  (standard form 424), including signed assurances that it will comply with          
  statutory and administrative requirements. Applicants must also demonstrate        
  compliance with statutory requirements for the three Tiers of the Violent          
  Offender Incarceration Program and those for Truth In Sentencing to qualify for    
  funding from each allocation. States must also demonstrate an ability to operate   
  facilities built with these funds, recognize the rights of crime victims, and have 
  implemented a program of drug testing and intervention for offenders under         


                                                                                11-08
  corrections supervision.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under Executive Order 12372,
  "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." Applicants should consult the
  office or official designated as the single point of contact in their State to find
  out if the State has selected this program for review and for information on the
  process the State requires when applying for Federal assistance.
Application Procedure:
  Applicants must submit a completed Standard Form 424 and other information
  outlined in the Application Kit to the Office of Justice Programs, Bureau of
  Justice Assistance. The receipt, review, and analysis of applications will follow
  Office of Justice Programs policies and procedures for the administration of
  grant applications. All applications must be submitted electronically through the
  Office of Justice Programs, Grant Management System at
  https://grants.ojp.usdoj.gov.
Award Procedure:
  A letter with copies of the grant award are sent to the applicant agency upon
  approval by the Office of Justice Programs. One copy of the grant award must be
  signed by the authorized official and returned to the Office of Justice Programs.
Deadlines:
  See the program solicitation or contact the Department of Justice, Office of
  Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Assistance. Telephone: (1-866) 859-2687 or
  E-mail: AskBJA@usdoj.gov.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Applications for Violent Offender Incarceration Tier 1 funds will be approved or
  denied within 30 days of receipt of a complete application. Applications for
  Violent Offender Incarceration Tiers 2 and 3 and Truth In Sentencing will
  generally be approved or denied within 90 days of receipt of a complete
  application.
Appeals:
  Formula grant applicants will be notified in writing of reasons for disapproval of
  their application and will be given an opportunity for reconsideration.
Renewals:
  Subject to appropriations.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The Federal share of a grant funded project may not exceed 90 percent of the
  total costs of the project. The 10 percent matching funds must be in the form of
  a cash match.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Funds for each fiscal year will be awarded for a period that includes the fiscal
  year of the appropriation plus four additional years.
Reports:
  Recipients are required to submit Individual Project Reports as subawards are
  made, quarterly Financial Reports, and a semiannual progress report.
Audits:
  All organizations that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in any
  fiscal year must have a single audit for that year in accordance with OMB
  Circular No. A-133, as amended, unless the audit condition on the award says
  otherwise. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency not later than 9
  months after the end of the grantee's fiscal year. Performance Measures: To
  assist in fulfilling the Department's responsibilities under the Government
  Performance and Results Act (GPRA), P.L. 103-62, applicants who receive
  funding under this solicitation must provide data that measures the results of
  their work.
Records:
  In accordance with the requirement set forth in 28 CFR, Parts 66 and 70,
  grantees must maintain all financial records, supporting documents, statistical
  records, and all other records pertinent to the award for at least 3 years following
  the close of the most recent audit.
Account Identification:
  15-0404-0-1-754.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $0; FY 08 $0; and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Please visit web site for current information at
  http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/BJA/grant/voitis.html.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  None.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Program Guidance and Application Kit, Answers to Frequently Asked
  Questions, and the OJP Financial Guide.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Bureau of Justice Assistance, Office of Justice Programs, U.S. Department of
  Justice, 810 Seventh Street, NW., Washington, DC 20531. Contact: James
  Burch: Telephone: (202) 616-6500 or 1-866-859-2687 or by email at
  AskBJA@usdoj.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/bja/grant/voitis.html.
                                                                                    589
