RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  None.                                                                               
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Criteria for selecting proposals under the formula grant awards within the          
  authorized purpose areas will be defined by States.                                 
                                                                                      
16.587 VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN DISCRETIONARY                                           
                                                                                      
GRANTS FOR INDIAN TRIBAL GOVERNMENTS                                                  
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  OFFICE ON VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN, DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  The Violence Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of         
  2005, Title IX, Section 906, Public Law 109-162, 42 U.S.C. 3796gg-10.               
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To increase tribal capacity to respond to violent crimes against Indian women,      
  and to develop and strengthen victim services in cases involving violent crimes     
  against Indian women.                                                               
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants (Discretionary).                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Grants may be awarded for the following statutory purposes: (1) develop and         
  enhance effective governmental strategies to curtail violent crimes against and     
  increase the safety of Indian women consistent with tribal law and custom; (2)      
  increase tribal capacity to respond to domestic violence, dating violence, sexual   
  assault, and stalking crimes against Indian women; (3) strengthen tribal justice    
  interventions including tribal law enforcement, prosecution, courts, probation,     
  correctional facilities; (4) enhance services to Indian women victimized by         
  domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking; (5) work in       
  cooperation with the community to develop education and prevention strategies       
  directed toward issues of domestic violence, dating violence, and stalking          
  programs and to address the needs of children exposed to domestic violence; (6)     
  provide programs for supervised visitation and safe visitation exchange of          
  children in situations involving domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking     
  committed by one parent against the other with appropriate security measures,       
  policies, and procedures to protect the safety of victims and their children; (7)   
  provide transitional housing for victims of domestic violence, dating violence,     
  sexual assault, or stalking, including rental or utilities payments assistance and  
                                                                                      
  assistance with related expenses such as security deposits and other costs

                                                                                      
  incidental to relocation to transitional housing, and support services to enable a

  victim of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking to locate 
                                                                                      
  and secure permanent housing and integrate into a community; and (8) provide

                                                                                      
  legal assistance necessary to provide effective aid to victims of domestic

                                                                                      
  violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking who are seeking relief in

                                                                                      
  legal matters arising as a consequence of that abuse or violence, at minimal or

                                                                                      
  no cost to the victims. Applicants must demonstrate their proposal was              
  developed in consultation with a nonprofit, nongovernmental Indian victim           
  services program, including sexual assault and domestic violence victim services    
  providers in the tribal or local community, or a nonprofit tribal domestic          
  violence and sexual assault coalition to the extent that they exist. In the absence 
  of such a demonstration, the applicant may meet the requirement of this             
  subsection through consultation with women in the community to be served.           
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Indian tribal governments and authorized designees of tribal governments. The       
  term "tribal government" means-- (A) the governing body of an Indian tribe; or      
  (B) a tribe, band, pueblo, nation, or other organized group or community of         
  Indians, including any Alaska Native village or regional or village corporation     
  (as defined in, or established pursuant to, the Alaska Native Claims Settlement     
  Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.)), that is recognized as eligible for the special       
  programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their     
  status as Indians.                                                                  
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Tribal governments and authorized designees of tribal governments.                  
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  None.                                                                               
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental          
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official     
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information  
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the 
  State has selected the program for review. Application forms furnished by the

  Federal agency, in accordance with 28 CFR, Part 66 (Common Rule) must be

  used for this program.                                                              
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Applicants must apply through the on-line Grants.gov portal. The receipt,           
  review, and analysis of application will follow Office on Violence Against          
  Women policies and procedures for the administration of grant applications.         
  This program is subject to provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110.                    


590                                                                             11-08

Award Procedure:
  Upon approval by the Office on Violence Against Women, online notification is
  sent to the applicant agency with copies of the Grant Award. One copy of the
  Grant Award must be signed electronically by an authorized official and
  returned to the Office of Justice Programs.
Deadlines:
  Contact the Office on Violence Against Women for application deadlines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Applicants will be notified before the end of the fiscal year.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Renewals are considered on a case-by-case basis.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Grants will be made for amounts up to 100 percent of the costs of the programs
  or projects contained in the approved applications. Match is not required for
  this grant program; however, applicants are encouraged to maximize the impact
  of Federal grant dollars by contributing to the costs of their projects.
  Supplimental contributions may be cash, in-kind services, or a combination of
  both.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  At least one year. Funds are released on an as needed basis to the grantee.
Reports:
  Quarterly financial reports are required, as stipulated in the effective edition of
  the OJP Financial Guide. Grantees shall also file semi-annual performance
  reports explaining the activities carried out and an assessment of the
  effectiveness of those activities in achieving the purposes of the program,
  including the number of persons served and the number of persons seeking
  services who could not be served, as well as a final performance report.
Audits:
  All organizations that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in any
  fiscal year must have a single audit for that year in accordance with OMB
  Circular A-133, as amended, unless the audit condition on the award says
  otherwise. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency not later than 9
  months after the end of the grantee's fiscal year.
Records:
  The award recipient must keep complete records on disposition of funds.
Account Identification:
  15-0409-0-1-754.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $31,649,599; FY 08 est $30,012,240; and FY 09 est
  $21,008,568.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $100,000-$900,000; $441,356.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  FY 07: Applications: 106, Awards: 82; FY 08: Applications: 66, Awards: 65;
  FY 09: est. Applications: 66, Awards: 46.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  OJP Financial Guide is applicable.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Office on Violence Against Women, Department of Justice; 800 K Street NW,
  Suite 920; Washington, DC, 20530; Telephone: (202) 307-6026.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ovw.usdoj.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  16.588, Violence Against Women Formula Grants; 16.589, Rural Domestic
  Violence, Dating Violence, Sexual Assault, and Stalking Assistance Program;
  16.590, Grants to Encourage Arrest Policies and Enforcement of Protection
  Orders.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Training for tribal law enforcement officers and prosecutors; establishment of a
  coordinated tribal community response to violence against women; creation of a
  tribal court to handle sexual assault and domestic violence cases; hiring of
  domestic violence victim advocates; creation of an automated communication
  system to connect tribal courts, police officers, prosecutors, and victim services
  providers; provision of transitional housing for victims; education and
  prevention campaigns; and provision of supervised visitation and safe exchange
  services.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Criteria are established by the Violence Against Women and Department of
  Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 and program guidelines published annually.
16.588 VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN FORMULA GRANTS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE ON VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN, DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994; Omnibus Crime
  Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, Sections 2001, 2007-2011, and 2013, 42
