Deadlines:                                                                            
  Contact the Office on Violence Against Women for application deadlines.

Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

  120 days after receipt of an application.

                                                                                      
Appeals:                                                                              
  Contact the Office on Violence Against Women for further information.               
Renewals:

  Applications are submitted on an annual basis.                                      
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Each eligible entity receives a base amount of $600,000. Remaining funds are        
  divided in an amount that bears the same ratio to the amount of remaining funds     
  as the population of the State bears to the population of all of the States that    
  results from a distribution among the States on the basis of each State's           
  population in relation to the population of all States (not including populations   
  of Indian tribes). The Federal share of these grants may not exceed 75 percent of   
  the total costs of the projects described in the applications. States may satisfy   
  this 25 percent match through in-kind services. All funds designated as match       
  are restricted to the same uses as the Office on Violence Against Women funds       
  and must be expended within the grant period. States and subgrantees may            
  apply for a waiver of the match requirement based on an adequate demonstration      
  of financial need. Match may not be required in subgrants for victim services or    
  tribes.                                                                             
                                                                                      
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

  Funds can be accessed by the State via the Phone Activated Paperless System         
  (PAPRS) on an as needed basis. The State in turn subgrants the money to             
  eligible public and/or private nonprofit programs via drawdowns.                    
Reports:                                                                              
  Quarterly and final financial reports plus annual and end-of-grant program          
  performance reports will be required, as stipulated in the program regulations      
  and the effective edition of the OJP Financial Guide. In the progress reports,      
  States must provide a statistical summary of persons served, detailing the nature   
  of victimization and providing data on age, sex, relationship of victim to          
  offender, geographic distribution, race, ethnicity, disability, and the number of   
                                                                                      
  persons served in any underserved population. The reports must also explain the

                                                                                      
  activities carried out and provide an assessment of the effectiveness of those

                                                                                      
  activities, including the number of persons served and the numbers of persons

                                                                                      
  seeking services who could not be served. States are responsible for submitting

                                                                                      
  State reports and ensuring that subgrantees submit annual progress reports as

                                                                                      
  well.

                                                                                      
Audits:

  All organizations that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in any       
  fiscal year must have a single audit for that year in accordance with OMB           
  Circular No. A-133, as amended, unless the audit condition on the award says        
  otherwise. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency not later than 9    
  months after the end of the grantee's fiscal year.                                  
                                                                                      
Records:

  The award recipient must keep complete and accurate records on the disposition      
  of funds.                                                                           
                                                                                      
Account Identification:

  15-0409-0-1-754.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Grants)FY 07 $114,783,946; FY 08 est $114,354,000; and FY 09 est                   
  $80,047,800.                                                                        
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  $615,364 to $10,227,267; $1,874,656.                                                
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  FY 07: Applications: 56, Awards: 56; FY 08: Applications: 61, Awards: 61; FY        
  09: est. Applications: 61, Awards 61.                                               
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  OJP Financial Guide is applicable.                                                  
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Office on Violence Against Women Office, Department of Justice, 800 K Street,       
  NW., Washington, DC 20530. Telephone: (202) 307-6026.                               
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.ovw.usdoj.gov .                                                          
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  16.587, Violence Against Women Discretionary Grants for Indian Tribal               
  Governments; 16.589, Rural Domestic Violence, Dating Violence, Sexual               
  Assault, and Stalking Assistance Program; 16.590, Grants to Encourage Arrest        
  Policies and Enforcement of Protection Orders.                                      
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Training and technical assistance for prosecutors, investigators, and law           
  enforcement officers on issues relating to sexual assault and domestic violence;    
  enhancement of services to victims of sexual assault and domestic violence; and     
  creation of investigative and prosecutorial units to handle cases involving violent 
  crimes against women.                                                               
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  All applications submitted by the Chief Executive Officer of a State, or his or     
                                                                                      
592                                                                             11-08

  her designee, will be accepted by the grantor Federal Agency for consideration.
16.589 RURAL DOMESTIC VIOLENCE, DATING
VIOLENCE, SEXUAL ASSAULT, AND STALKING
ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN, DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994, Section 40295, 42
  U.S.C. 13971, as amended; Violence Against Women Act of 2000, Public Law
  106-386; Violence Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization
  Act, Title II, Section 203, Public Law 109-162.
OBJECTIVES:
  (1) To identify, assess, and appropriately respond to child, youth, and adult
  victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking in
  rural communities, by encouraging collaboration among-- (A) domestic
  violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking victim service providers;
  (B) law enforcement agencies; (C) prosecutors; (D) courts; (E) other criminal
  justice service providers; (F) human and community service providers; (G)
  educational institutions; and (H) health care providers; (2) to establish and
  expand nonprofit, nongovernmental, State, tribal, territorial, and local
  government victim services in rural communities to child, youth, and adult
  victims; and (3) to increase the safety and well-being of women and children in
  rural communities, by- (A) dealing directly and immediately with domestic
  violence, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking occurring in rural
  communities; and (B) creating and implementing strategies to increase
  awareness and prevent domestic violence, sexual assault, dating violence, and
  stalking.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funding may be used to carry out programs serving rural areas or rural
  communities that address domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and
  stalking by implementing, expanding, and establishing cooperative efforts and
  projects among law enforcement officers, prosecutors, victim advocacy groups,
  and other related parties to investigate and prosecute incidents of domestic
  violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking; providing treatment,
  counseling, advocacy, and other long- and short-term assistance to adult and
  minor victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking
  in rural communities, including assistance in immigration matters; and working
  in cooperation with the community to develop education and prevention
  strategies directed toward such issues.
Applicant Eligibility:
  States, Indian tribes, local governments, and nonprofit, public or private entities,
  including tribal nonprofit organizations, are eligible to carry out programs
  serving rural areas or rural communities that address domestic violence, dating
  violence, sexual assault, and stalking.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Beneficiaries include criminal and tribal justice practitioners and service
  providers who respond to victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual
  assualt, and stalking in rural jurisdictions and Indian country.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review. Application forms furnished by the
  Federal agency, in accordance with 28 CFR, Part 66 (Common Rule), must be
  used for this program.
Application Procedure:
  Detailed information is provided in a program solicitation which is obtained by
  sending a self-addressed mailing label to NCJRS, Box 6000, Rockville, MD
  20849-6000; calling toll free to request a copy at (800) 851-3420; or accessing
  the web site at www.ojp.usdoj.gov/nij under Funding Opportunities. This
  program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No.A-110 or the Common
  Rule where applicable. The Office of Justice Programs (OJP) requires that
  funding applications be submitted electronically through the OJP Grants
  Management System (GMS), which will be accessed at
  http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/fundopps.htm. On-line submission of an application
  represents legal binding acceptance of the terms of the application. For further
  information about GMS, call the OJP GMS Hotline at 1-888-549-9901.
Award Procedure:
  Subject to the availability of appropriated funds, NIJ anticipates that it will make
  an award to each eligible applicant that satisfies the specific application
  requirements outlined in this announcement (including those concerning
  allocation of funds, unobligated FY 2005-FY 2006 Backlog Reduction Awards,
  and permissible expenses), the general requirements for NIJ and OJP grants, and
