  all other applicable legal requirements. Reasons for rejection: NIJ may reject     
  applications that are incomplete, do not respond to the scope of the solicitation, 
  do not comply with format requirements, or are submitted after the deadline.

Deadlines:                                                                           
  Contact the Office on Violence Against Women for application deadlines.            
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Applicants will be notified before the end of the fiscal year.                     
Appeals:                                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Renewals:                                                                            
  Renewals are considered on a case-by-case basis.                                   
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  A range of 25-40 percent of funds (depending on the size of appropriations) are    
  set aside for services that meaningfully address sexual assault in rural           
  communities. 75 percent of funds is allocated to eligible entities in rural states.
  "Rural state" is defined as a state that has a population density of 52 or fewer   
  persons per square mile or a state in which the largest county has fewer that      
  150,000 people, based on the most recent decennial census. Eighteen States         
  qualify as rural for the purposes of this grant program: Alaska, Arkansas,         
  Arizona, Colorado, Idaho, Kansas, Maine, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New            
  Mexico, North Dakota, Oklahoma, Oregon, South Dakota, Utah, Vermont, and           
  Wyoming. Grants will be made for amounts up to 100 percent of the costs of the     
  programs or projects contained in the approved applications. Match is not          
  required for this grant program; however, applicants are encouraged to maximize    
  the impact of Federal grant dollars by contributing to the costs of their projects.
  Supplemental contributions may be cash, in-kind services, or a combination of      
  both.                                                                              
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Up to 24 months. Funds are released on an as-needed basis to the grantee.          
Reports:                                                                             
  Semi-annual progress reports, and quarterly financial reports, and a final report  
  are required, as stipulated in the program regulations and the effective edition of
  the OJP Financial Guide. Progress reports should explain the activities carried    
  out and include an assessment of the effectiveness of those activities in          
  achieving the purposes of the program, including number of persons served and      
  numbers of persons seeking services who could not be served.                       
Audits:                                                                              
  All organizations that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in any      
  fiscal year must have a single audit for that year in accordance with OMB          
  Circular No. A-133, as amended, unless the audit condition on the award says       
  otherwise. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency not later than 9   
  months after the end of the grantee's fiscal year.                                 
Records:                                                                             
  The award recipient must keep complete records on disposition of funds.            
Account Identification:                                                              
  15-0409-0-1-754.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Grants) FY 07 $33,495,246; FY 08 est $28,965,535; and FY 09 est                   
  $20,275,875.                                                                       
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  $81,000 - $850,000; $490,941.                                                      
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  FY 07: Applications: 160, Awards: 64; FY 08: Applications: 244, Awards: 57;

                                                                                     
  FY 09: est. Applications: 244, Awards: 40.

                                                                                     
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

                                                                                     
  The OJP Financial Guide is applicable.

                                                                                     
Regional or Local Office:

                                                                                     
  None.

Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Office on Violence Against Women, Department of Justice, 800 K Street, N.W.,       
  Washington, DC 20530. Telephone: (202) 307-6026.                                   
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.ovw.usdoj.gov .                                                         
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  16.588, Violence Against Women Formula Grants; 16.587, Violence Against            
  Women Discretionary Grants for Indian Tribal Governments; 16.590, Grants to        
  Encourage Arrest Policies and Enforcement of Protection Orders.                    
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  Partnerships among government agencies, community based organizations, and         
  faith based organizations to address domestic violence, dating violence, sexual    
  assualt, and stalking more comprehensively; coordinated community responses        
  to domestic violence, dating violence and child victimization that involve         
  training for criminal justice practitioners and protocol development; and          
  initiatives addressing the needs of diverse populations in rural areas, including  
  bilingual advocacy and assistance in immigration matters.                          
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Criteria are established by the Office on Violence Against Women and included      
  in an annual Application Kit.                                                      
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     


                                                                                11-08
16.590 GRANTS TO ENCOURAGE ARREST POLICIES AND
ENFORCEMENT OF PROTECTION ORDERS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE ON VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN, DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994, 42 U.S.C. 3796hh, as
  amended; Violence Against Women Act of 2000, Public Law 106-386; Violence
  Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005, Title I,
  Section 102, Public Law 109-162.
OBJECTIVES:
  To encourage States, Indian tribal governments, State and local courts (including
  juvenile courts), tribal courts, and units of local government to treat domestic
  violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking as serious violations of
  criminal law.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grants may be used for the following statutory program purposes: (1) To
  implement proarrest programs and policies in police departments, including
  policies for protection order violations. (2) To develop policies, educational
  programs, protection order registries, and training in police departments to
  improve tracking of cases involving domestic violence, dating violence, sexual
  assault, and stalking. Policies, educational programs, protection order registries,
  and training described in this paragraph shall incorporate confidentiality, and
  privacy protections for victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual
  assault, and stalking. (3) To centralize and coordinate police enforcement,
  prosecution, or judicial responsibility for domestic violence, dating violence,
  sexual assault, and stalking cases in teams or units of police officers,
  prosecutors, parole and probation officers, or judges. (4) To coordinate
  computer tracking systems to ensure communication between police,
  prosecutors, parole and probation officers, and both criminal and family courts.
  (5) To strengthen legal advocacy service programs for victims of domestic
  violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking, including strengthening
  assistance to such victims in immigration matters. (6) To educate judges in
  criminal and civil courts (including juvenile courts) about domestic violence,
  dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking and to improve judicial handling of
  such cases. (7) To provide technical assistance and computer and other
  equipment to police departments, prosecutors, courts, and tribal jurisdictions to
  facilitate the widespread enforcement of protection orders, including interstate
  enforcement, enforcement between States and tribal jurisdictions, and
  enforcement between tribal jurisdictions. (8) To develop or strengthen policies
  and training for police, prosecutors, and the judiciary in recognizing,
  investigating, and prosecuting instances of domestic violence and sexual assault
  against older individuals (as defined in section 3002 of this title) and individuals
  with disabilities (as defined in section 12102(2) of this title). (9) To develop
  State, tribal, territorial, or local policies, procedures, and protocols for
  preventing dual arrests and prosecutions in cases of domestic violence, dating
  violence, sexual assault, and stalking, and to develop effective methods for
  identifying the pattern and history of abuse that indicates which party is the
  actual perpetrator of abuse. (10) To plan, develop and establish comprehensive
  victim service and support centers, such as family justice centers, designed to
  bring together victim advocates from non-profit, non-governmental victim
  services organizations, law enforcement officers, prosecutors, probation officers,
  governmental victim assistants, forensic medical professionals, civil legal
  attorneys, chaplains, legal advocates, representatives from community-based
  organizations and other relevant public or private agencies or organizations into
  one centralized location, in order to improve safety, access to services, and
  confidentiality for victims and families. Although funds may be used to support
  the colocation of project partners under this paragraph, funds may not support
  construction or major renovation expenses or activities that fall outside of the
  scope of the other statutory purpose areas. (11) To develop and implement
  policies and training for police, prosecutors, probation and parole officers, and
  the judiciary in recognizing, investigating, and prosecuting instances of sexual
  assault, with an emphasis on recognizing the threat to the community for repeat
  crime perpetration by such individuals. (12) To develop, enhance, and maintain
  protection order registries. (13) To develop human immunodeficiency virus
  (HIV) testing programs for sexual assault perpetrators and notification and
  counseling protocols.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Grants are available to States, Indian tribal governments, units of local
  government, and State, tribal, territorial, and local courts.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Beneficiaries include criminal and tribal justice practitioners, domestic violence,
  dating violence, sexual assault and stalking victim advocates, and other service
  providers who respond to victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual
  assault, and stalking.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Eligible applicants must: (1) certify that their laws or official policies-- (A)
  encourage or mandate arrests of domestic violence offenders based on probable
                                                                                     593
