  cause that an offense has been committed; and (B) encourage or mandate arrest            
  of domestic violence offenders who violate the terms of a valid and outstanding          
  protection order; (2) demonstrate that their laws, policies, or practices and their      
  training programs discourage dual arrests of offender and victim; (3) certify that       
  their laws, policies, or practices prohibit issuance of mutual restraining orders of     
  protection except in cases where both spouses file a claim and the court makes           
  detailed findings of fact indicating that both spouses acted primarily as                
  aggressors and that neither spouse acted primarily in self-defense; (4) certify that     
  their laws, policies, and practices do not require, in connection with the               
  prosecution of any misdemeanor or felony domestic violence offense, or in                
  connection with the filing, issuance, registration, or service of a protection order,    
  or a petition for a protection order, to protect a victim of domestic violence,          
  stalking, or sexual assault, that the victim bear the costs associated with the          
  filing of criminal charges against the offender, or the costs associated with the        
  filing, issuance, registration, or service of a warrant, protection order, petition      
  for a protection order, or witness subpoena, whether issued inside or outside the        
  State, tribal, or local jurisdiction; and (5) certify that, not later than 3 years after 
  January, 5, 2006, their laws, policies, or practices will ensure that-- (A) no law       
  enforcement officer, prosecuting officer or other government official shall ask or       
  require an adult, youth, or child victim of a sex offense as defined under Federal,      
  tribal, State, territorial, or local law to submit to a polygraph examination or         
  other truth telling device as a condition for proceeding with the investigation of       
  such an offense; and (B) the refusal of a victim to submit to an examination             
  described in subparagraph (A) shall not prevent the investigation of the offense.        
                                                                                           
  In addition, a State or unit of local government shall not be entitled to 5 percent

                                                                                           
  of the funds allocated under this program unless the State or unit of local

                                                                                           
  government-- (1) certifies that it has a law or regulation that requires-- (A) the

                                                                                           
  State or unit of local government at the request of a victim to administer to a

                                                                                           
  defendant, against whom an information or indictment is presented for a crime

                                                                                           
  in which by force or threat of force the perpetrator compels the victim to engage        
  in sexual activity, testing for the immunodeficiency virus (HIV) not later than 48       
  hours after the date on which the information or indictment is presented; (B) as         
  soon as practicable notification to the victim, or parent and guardian of the            
  victim, and defendant of the testing results; and (C) follow-up tests for HIV as         
  may be medically appropriate, and that as soon as practicable after each such            
  test the results be made available in accordance with subparagraph (B); or (2)           
  gives the Attorney General assurances that its laws and regulations will be in           
  compliance with requirements of paragraph (1) within the later of -- (A) the             
  period ending on the date on which the next session of the State legislature ends;       
  or (B) 2 years.                                                                          
Preapplication Coordination:                                                               
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental               
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official          
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her state for more information       
  on the processes the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if        
  the State has selected the program for review. Application forms furnished by            
  the Federal agency, in accordance with 28 CFR Part 66 (Common Rule), must                
  be used for this program.

Application Procedure:

  Applicants must apply on-line at the grants.gov portal. The receipt, review, and         
  analysis of application will follow Office on Violence Against Women policies            
  and procedures for the administration of grant applications. This program is

                                                                                           
  subject to provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110.

Award Procedure:

                                                                                           
  Upon approval by the Office on Violence Against Women, online notification is

                                                                                           
  sent to the applicant agency with copies of the Grant Award. One copy of the

                                                                                           
  Grant Award must be signed electronically by an authorized official and

                                                                                           
  returned to the Office of Justice Programs.

                                                                                           
Deadlines:

                                                                                           
  Contact the Office on Violence Against Women for application deadlines.

                                                                                           
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

                                                                                           
  Applicants will be notified by the end of the fiscal year.

Appeals:                                                                                   
  None.                                                                                    
Renewals:                                                                                  
  Renewals are considered on a case-by-case basis.                                         
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                         
  Grants will be made for amounts up to 100 percent of the costs of the programs           
  or projects contained in the approved applications. Match is not required for            
  this grant program; however, applicants are encouraged to maximize the impact            
  of Federal dollars by contributing to the cost of the project. Supplemental              
  contributions may be cash, in-kind services, or a combination of both.                   
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                     
  Up to 24 months. Funds are released on an as-needed basis to the grantee.                
Reports:                                                                                   
  Semi-annual progress reports, quarterly financial reports, and a final report are        
  required, as stipulated in the program regulations and the effective edition of the      
  OJP Financial Guide. Progress reports shall explain the activities carried out and       
  include an assessment of the effectiveness of those activities in achieving the          
  purposes of the program, including number of persons served and numbers of               


594                                                                                  11-08

  persons seeking services who could not be served.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  24, 1997), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organization,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  The award recipient must keep complete records on disposition of funds.
Account Identification:
  15-0409-0-1-754 .
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $53,319,675; FY 08 est $43,148,196; and FY 09 est
  $30,203,737.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $200,000 to $1,190,000; $616,403.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  FY 07: Applications: 181, Awards: 96; FY 08: Applications: 170, Awards: 67;
  FY 09: est. Applications: 170, Awards: 47.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  The OJP Financial Guide is applicable.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Office on Violence Against Women, Department of Justice, 800 K Street, NW.,
  Washington, DC 20530; Telephone: (202) 307-6026.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ovw.usdoj.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  16.588, Violence Against Women Formula Grants; 16.587, Violence Against
  Women Discretionary Grants for Indian Tribal Governments; 16.589, Rural
  Domestic Violence, Dating Violence, Sexual Assault, and Stalking Assistance
  Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Community-wide approaches to reduce and prevent domestic violence that
  actively involve the police department, the prosecutor's office, the courts, and
  nonprofit, nongovernmental victim services agencies; initiatives within law
  enforcement to address police officers who batter; the development of computer
  systems to track domestic violence cases, protection orders, and violations of
  protection orders; legal advocacy for domestic violence victims; the
  implementation of pro-arrest or mandatory arrest programs and policies in police
  departments; and proactive judicial monitoring, sanctions, and intensive
  supervision to manage offender behavior and ensure victim safety.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Criteria are established by the Office on Violence Against Women and included
  in an annual Application Kit.
16.593 RESIDENTIAL SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT
FOR STATE PRISONERS
   (RSAT)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS, CORRECTIONS PROGRAM OFFICE,
  DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, Title I, Section 1001, as
  amended, Public Law 90-351, 42 U.S.C. 3796ff et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  To assist States and units of local government develop and implement residential
  substance abuse treatment programs within State and local correctional facilities
  in which prisoners are incarcerated for a period of time sufficient to permit
  substance abuse treatment.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The Residential Substance Abuse Treatment formula grant funds may be used to
  implement residential substance abuse programs that provide individual and
  group treatment activities for offenders in residential facilities operated by State
  and local correctional agencies. These programs must 1) last between 6 and 12
  months; 2) be provided in residential treatment facilities set apart from the
  general correctional population; 3) focus on the substance abuse problems of the
  inmate; and 4) develop the inmate's cognitive, behavioral, social, vocational, and
  other skills to solve the substance abuse and related problems. Grant funds shall
  not be used for land acquisition or construction projects.
Applicant Eligibility:
  States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin
  Islands, America Samoa, Guam, and the Northern Mariana Islands are eligible to
