  apply. The State office may award subgrants to State agencies and units of local     
  government. Applicant States must agree to implement or continue to require          
  urinalysis and/or other proven reliable forms of drug and alcohol testing of         
  individuals assigned to residential substance abuse treatment programs in            
  correctional facilities.                                                             
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  State and local correctional agencies will implement programs to provide             
  treatment to incarcerated offenders.                                                 
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  The applicant must submit a completed Application for Federal Assistance             
  (Standard Form 424), including signed assurances that it will comply with            
  statutory and administrative requirements. The applicant is also required to         
  submit a description that includes the goals of the program, the implementation      
  process, timetable for implementation, how the State will coordinate substance       
  abuse treatment activities at the State and local levels, and the State's law or     
  policy requiring substance abuse testing of individuals in correctional residential  
  substance abuse treatment programs.                                                  
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental           
  Review of Federal Programs". Applicants should consult the office or official        
  designated as the single point of contact in their State to find out if the State has
                                                                                       
  selected this program for review and for information on the process the State

                                                                                       
  requires when applying for Federal assistance.

                                                                                       
Application Procedure:

                                                                                       
  Application Procedure: Immediately after enactment of the appropriations

                                                                                       
  (usually in the first quarter of the fiscal year). BJA notifies the Byrne State

  Administering Agencies (SAAs) that the program solicitation is available online.

   The Byrne SAAs then have 60 days in which to submit an application through          
  the online, Internet-based Grants Management System (GMS).                           
Award Procedure:

  A letter with copies of the grant award are sent to the applicant agency upon        
  approval by the Office of Justice Programs. One copy of the grant award must be      
  signed by the authorized official and returned to the Office of Justice Programs.    
Deadlines:                                                                             
  Consult the Application Kit or contact the Bureau of Justice Assistance in the       
  office of Justice Programs for application deadlines by contacting: Bureau of        
  Justice Assistance, Programs Office, 810 Seventh Street N.W., Washington, DC         
  20531. Telephone: (202) 514-6638.                                                    
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Applications will generally be approved or denied within 60 days of receipt of a     
  complete application.                                                                
Appeals:                                                                               
  Formula grant applicants will be notified in writing of reasons for disapproval of   
  their application and will be given an opportunity for reconsideration.              
Renewals:                                                                              
  Formula grants will be renewed each year through fiscal year 2000, subject to        
  appropriations.                                                                      
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  Grant funds are allocated to the States using the following formula: a) each         
  participating State is allocated a base amount of 0.4 percent of the total funds     
  available for the program; and b) the remaining funds are allocated to each          
  participating State in the ratio its prison population bears to the total prison     
  population of all participating States. The most recent National Prisoner            
  Statistics collected by the Bureau of Justice Statistics will be used to make these  
  allocations. The Federal share of a grant-funded project may not exceed 75           
  percent of the total costs of the project. The 25 percent matching funds must be     
  in the form of a cash match.                                                         
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Funds for each fiscal year will be awarded for a period that includes the fiscal     
  year of the appropriation plus two additional years.                                 
Reports:                                                                               
  Recipients are required to submit Individual Project Reports as subawards are        
  made, quarterly Financial Reports, and an annual Evaluation Report.                  
Audits:                                                                                
  All organizations that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in any        
  fiscal year must have a single audit for that year in accordance with OMB            
  Circular No. A-133, as amended, unless the audit condition on the award says         
                                                                                       
  otherwise. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency not later than 9

                                                                                       
  months after the end of the grantee's fiscal year. Performance Measures: To

                                                                                       
  assist in fulfilling the Department's responsibilities under the Government

                                                                                       
  Performance and Results Act (GPRA), Public Law 103-62, applicants who

                                                                                       
  receive funding under this solicitation must provide data that measures the

                                                                                       
  results of their work.

                                                                                       
Records:

                                                                                       
  In accordance with the requirement set forth in 28 CFR Parts 66 and 70,

                                                                                       
  grantees must maintain all financial records, supporting documents, statistical

                                                                                       
  records, and all other records pertinent to the award for at least 3 years following

                                                                                       
  the close of the most recent audit.                                                  
Account Identification:                                                                
  15-0404-0-1-754.                                                                     
                                                                                  11-08
Obligations:
  FY 07 $9,872,280; FY 08 $9,400,000; and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  California received the largest award of $6,801,978 followed by Texas which
  received $6,821,936. The smallest award of $258,912 went to Northern Mariana
  Islands.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  None.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Program Guidance and Application Kit, and the OJP Financial Guide.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Bureau of Justice Assistance, Office of Justice Programs, Department of Justice,
  810 Seventh Street, N.W., Washington, DC 20531. Contact: Timothy Wight,
  Associate Deputy Director. Telephone: (202) 616-6500.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/bja.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Criteria for selecting proposals to implement State and local residential
  substance abuse treatment programs for prisoners with formula grant funds will
  be defined by the States.
16.596 CORRECTIONAL GRANT PROGRAM FOR INDIAN
TRIBES
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS, CORRECTIONS PROGRAMS OFFICE,
  DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Omnibus Consolidated Rescissions and Appropriations Act of 1996, Section
  114, Public Law 104-134; Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of
  1994, Title II, Subtitle A, Public Law 103-322, 105 Stat. 1796, as amended, 42
  U.S.C. 13701 et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  To assist Indian tribes with the construction of jails on tribal lands for the
  incarceration of offenders subject to tribal jurisdiction.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The Grant Program for Indian Tribes may be used to assist Indian tribes in
  developing or expanding jail facilities for both adult and juvenile offenders.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Indian tribes may apply. An Indian tribe is defined as any Indian or Alaska
  Native tribe, band, nation, pueblo, village, or community that the Secretary of
  the Interior acknowledges to exist as an Indian tribe pursuant to Public Law 103-
  454, 108 Stat. 4791, and which performs law enforcement functions as
  determined by the Secretary of the Interior.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Indian tribes may apply. An Indian tribe is defined as any Indian or Alaska
  Native tribe, band, nation, pueblo, village, or community that the Secretary of
  the Interior acknowledges to exist as an Indian tribe pursuant to Public Law 103-
  454, 108 Stat. 4791, and which performs law enforcement functions as
  determined by the Secretary of the Interior.
Credentials/Documentation:
  The applicant must submit a completed Application for Federal Assistance
  (Standard Form 424), including signed assurances that it will comply with
  statutory and administrative requirements. The applicant is also required to
  submit a description of the program, the implementation process, and a
  timetable for implementation.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Targeted tribes are invited to submit applications for construction of juvenile
  correctional facilities.
Award Procedure:
  A letter with copies of the grant award are sent to the applicant agency upon
  approval by the Office of Justice Programs. One copy of the grant award must be
  signed by the authorized official and returned to the Office of Justice Programs.
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  None.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Renewals are subject to appropriation and program priorities.
                                                                                 595
