Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  The Federal share of a grant-funded program may not exceed 90 percent of the         
  total costs of the project.                                                          
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Funds for each fiscal year will be awarded for a period of 24 months.                
Reports:                                                                               
  Semi-annual financial and progress reports are required.                             
Audits:                                                                                
  All organizations that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in any        
  fiscal year must have a single audit for that year in accordance with OMB            
  Circular No. A-133, as amended, unless the audit condition on the award says         
  otherwise. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency not later than 9     
  months after the end of the grantee's fiscal year. Performance Measures: To          
  assist in fulfilling the Department's responsibilities under the Government          
  Performance and Results Act (GPRA), P.L. 103-62, applicants who receive              
  funding under this solicitation must provide data that measures the results of       
  their work.                                                                          
Records:                                                                               
  In accordance with the requirement set forth in 28 CFR, Parts 66 and 70,             
  grantees must maintain all financial records, supporting documents, statistical      
  records and all other records pertinent to the award for at least 3 years following  
  the close of the most recent audit.                                                  
Account Identification:                                                                
  15-0404-0-1-754.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  FY 07 $8,885,052; FY 08 $8,630,000; and FY 09 est not available.                     
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  None.                                                                                
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  None.                                                                                
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  Program Guidance Application Kit and the OJP Financial Guide.

                                                                                       
Regional or Local Office:

                                                                                       
  None.

                                                                                       
Headquarters Office:

  Bureau of Justice Assistance, Office of Justice Programs, Department of Justice,     
  810 Seventh Street, N.W., Washington, DC 20531. Contact: Robert Brown,               
  Senior Policy Advisor. Telephone: (202) 616-6500.                                    
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/bja.                                                        
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  None.                                                                                
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  Examples of grants made under the tribal grant program include regional              
  detention centers and tribes on the Bureau of Indian Affairs priority list for new   
  construction.                                                                        
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  Past projects were selected on the basis of need for correctional facility space for 
  tribal youth and demonstrated ability to operate the facilities.                     
                                                                                       
                                                                                       
16.597 MOTOR VEHICLE THEFT PROTECTION ACT                                              
PROGRAM                                                                                
                                                                                       
      (Watch Your Car)                                                                 
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS, BUREAU OF JUSTICE ASSISTANCE,                            
  DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE                                                                
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994, Title XXII, Public            
  Law 103-322, 42 U.S.C 14171 et. seq.                                                 
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  The Motor Vehicle Theft Prevention Act of 1994 (MVTPA) authorizes the                
  Attorney General to develop, in cooperation with the States, a national voluntary    
  motor vehicle theft prevention program. The national "Watch Your Car"                
  program is designed as a cooperative initiative between the States, local            
  governments, and the U.S. Department of Justice, Bureau of Justice Assistance        
  (BJA). It allows owners of motor vehicles to voluntarily display a decal or device   
  on their vehicles to alert police that their vehicle is not normally driven between  
  the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. Motorists may also choose to display            
  another decal or device to signify their vehicle is not normally driven across or    
  in the proximity of international land borders or ports.                             
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants (Discretionary).                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Federal grant funds may be used for the printing or purchase and distribution of     
  decals, registration and consent forms, public information materials and             
  awareness campaigns, auto glass etching, training programs for law enforcement       
  personnel, registration campaigns, equipment such as audio/visual aids and           
  exhibits, administrative costs, upgrading of computer databases, additional          


596                                                                              11-08

  personnel, travel expenses, and overtime for Watch Your Car activities. No
  funds shall be used for land acquisition nor may funds be used to supplant State
  or local funds that would otherwise be made available for such purposes. There
  is no matching requirement.
Applicant Eligibility:
  A State may apply on behalf of itself and its respective units of local
  government. If a State's chief motor vehicle theft prevention activities are
  currently administered by a local agency rather than a State agency, then the
  local agency may apply on behalf of itself and the other local jurisdictions.
  Applications are submitted by the point of contact of the State or unit of local
  government, in writing, and in accordance with established BJA application
  guidelines.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Eligible beneficiaries include State agencies, county and municipal police
  departments, crime prevention organizations, and the general public.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants should submit the original copy of the Standard Form 424, signed by
  the project point of contact to the Bureau of Justice Assistance, U.S. Department
  of Justice, 810 Seventh Street, NW., Washington, DC 20531. Applicants should
  submit a complete line item budget and accompanying detailed budget narrative
  that explains all costs for which Watch Your Car funding is requested and
  provides sufficient information to document how costs were derived. Finally,
  applicants should develop an implementation plan to identify the steps they will
  take to implement the program along with a schedule for the completion of each
  step.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Presently, no program notices will be announced, nor will any awards be made
  until a programmatic assessment is completed by the National Institute of Justice
  (NIJ). Applicants also may contact the Department of Justice Response Center
  in Washington, DC. Telephone: (800) 421-6770 or (202) 307-1480 to obtain a
  copy. The standard application form as furnished by the Office of Justice
  Programs (OJP), in accordance with 28, CFR Part 66 (Common Rule), must be
  used for this program. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372,
  "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult
  the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or her State
  for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying
  for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Application guidelines and forms are available by contacting the Department of
  Justice Response Center as noted above. This application procedure has been on
  hold since February 2002.
Award Procedure:
  An award must be accepted by the applicant agency or institution according to
  the special conditions of the grant.
Deadlines:
  Contact the Department of Justice Response Center for application deadlines.
  Both the program announcement published in the Federal Register along with
  the Bureau of Justice Assistance motor vehicle theft prevention program
  announcement will note the application deadline.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 60 days.
Appeals:
  Determined by the Director of the Bureau of Justice Assistance.
Renewals:
  Awards will be for periods of up to 24 months.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Grants will be made for amounts up to 100 percent of the costs of the program or
  projects contained in the approved application. There is no cash match required
  of grant recipients.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Varies, generally one fiscal year.
Reports:
  "Fiscal Reports", which consist of quarterly budget expenditure reports and
  "Progress Reports" which consist of semi-annual program progress reports and
  final financial and progress reports.
Audits:
  All organizations that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in any
  fiscal year must have a single audit for that year in accordance with OMB
  Circular No. A-133, as amended, unless the audit condition on the award says
  otherwise. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency not later than 9
  months after the end of the grantee's fiscal year.
Records:
  All grantees are required to establish and maintain accounting systems and
  financial records in order to account for funds awarded to them.
Account Identification:
  15-0404-0-1-754.
Obligations:
  FY 06 $ estimate not available; FY 07 $ estimate not available; and FY 08
  estimate not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
