  To conduct, encourage, and coordinate research relating to corrections including    
  the causes, prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of criminal offenders. To          
  conduct evaluation programs which study the effectiveness of new approaches,        
  techniques, systems, programs, and devices employed to improve the corrections      
  system.                                                                             
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements or Contracts); Provision of Specialized      
  Services; Dissemination of Technical Information.                                   
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Provides assistance for upgrading correctional programs, services, and              
  techniques at State and local levels. Services are available to the entire range of 
  correctional agencies, including probation, parole, institutions, jails, and        
  community programs.                                                                 
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  States, general units of local government, public and private agencies,             
  educational institutions, organizations and individuals involved in the             
  development, implementation or operation of correctional programs and               
  services.                                                                           
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  States, general units of local government involved in the development,              
  implementation or operation of correctional programs and services.                  
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  OMB Circular No. A-87 cost principles applicable to grants with State and local     
  governments; OMB Circular No. A-21 cost principles for educational                  
  institutions; and OMB Circular No. A-122 cost principles for nonprofit              
  organizations.                                                                      
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  When applying for grants, the standard application forms as furnished by the

  Federal agency and required by OMB Circular Nos. A-102 (as applicable) must         
  be used for this program. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O.

  12372.                                                                              
Application Procedure:                                                                
  For project grants, applicant submits proposal on Standard Form 424 - Federal       
  Assistance. This program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular Nos. A-       
  102, and A-110, A-128, and A-133. Environmental assessment is required for          
  federally funded projects that are a major Federal action significantly affecting   
  the human environment as defined in the National Environmental Policy Act of        
  1969. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                      
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  A formal application (Standard Form 424 - Federal Assistance) is submitted to       
  NIC. When it is determined that the project will be funded, a letter and award      
  package are sent to the grantee.                                                    
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Deadlines for applications are given by project in agency's Annual Program Plan     
  document.                                                                           
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Approximately 90 days.                                                              
Appeals:                                                                              
  Appeals may be made to the Director of NIC.                                         
Renewals:                                                                             
  Continuation grant.                                                                 
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  None.                                                                               
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Funds advanced as required.                                                         
Reports:                                                                              
  Monthly and quarterly financial reports, quarterly programmatic progress            
  reports, and final evaluation and financial reports.                                
Audits:                                                                               
  Full fiscal and program audits at close of grant and on-site inspections as needed  
  throughout the project period.                                                      
Records:                                                                              
  Grantee must keep complete records on receipt and disposition of federal funds      
  for at least 3 years after the submission of the final financial report.            
Account Identification:                                                               
  15-1060-0-1-754.

                                                                                      
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Cooperative Agreements and Contracts) FY 07 $3,238,211; FY 08 est

                                                                                      
  $3,238,000; and FY 09 est $3,238,000.

                                                                                      
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

                                                                                      
  $1,500 to $200,000; $75,000.

                                                                                      
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

                                                                                      
  Fiscal year 2007 funds were largely directed to the design and implementation of

                                                                                      
  classification systems at the State and local levels; projects in probation parole

                                                                                      
  and intermediate sanctions; mental health care, Prison Rape Elimination Act

                                                                                      
  (PREA), accelerated management, training, and staff recruitment/retention in

                                                                                      
  prisons; and jail services and programs.

                                                                                      
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

  National Institute of Corrections Annual Program Plan. National Institute of        
  Corrections: Financial Management Guidelines for Grantees. National Institute       
                                                                                      


598                                                                             11-08

  of Corrections Guideline Manual: Instructions for Applying for Federal
  Assistance.
Regional or Local Office:
  Contact Chief, Research and Evaluation Division, 320 First Street NW Room
  5007, Washington, DC 20534. Telephone: (202) 307-2598. Toll-free: 800-995-
  6423. FAX: 303-307-3361. NOTE: All applications are to be sent to the NIC
  Washington office.
Headquarters Office:
  National Institute of Corrections, 320 First Street NW., Room 5007,
  Washington, DC 20534. Telephone: (202) 307- 3106. Toll-free: 800-995-
  6423. FAX: 202-307-3361. TDD: 202-307-3156.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.usdoj.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  16.601, Corrections_Training and Staff Development; 16.603,
  Corrections_Technical Assistance/Clearinghouse.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Awards have been made: (1) to research and develop an information base on
  classification systems and methods being used in corrections; (2) to design and
  implement community corrections options: and (3) to conduct communications
  audits in State departments of corrections.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  (1) Relatedness of proposed project to agency's mission, mandates, and program
  focuses; (2) quality and feasibility of project goals and objectives, design,
  implementation plan, and evaluation component when applicable; (3) past
  experience, qualifications, and capability of applicant to perform the proposed
  project; and (4) appropriateness of cost to perform proposed tasks.
16.603 CORRECTIONS-TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE/CLEARINGHOUSE
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF CORRECTIONS, DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974, Public Law 93-415,
  18 U.S.C. 4351-4353, as amended.
OBJECTIVES:
  To encourage and assist Federal, State, and local government programs and
  services, and programs and services of other public and private agencies,
  institutions, and organizations in their efforts to develop and implement
  improved corrections programs. To assist and serve in a consulting capacity to
  Federal, State, and local courts, departments, and agencies in the development,
  maintenance, and coordination of programs, facilities, services, training,
  treatment, and rehabilitation with respect to criminal and juvenile offenders.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements or Contracts); Provision of Specialized
  Services; Dissemination of Technical Information.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Provides assistance for upgrading and and operation of correctional facilities,
  programs, and services at State and local levels. Services are available to the
  entire range of correctional agencies, including probation, parole, institutions,
  jails, and community programs.
Applicant Eligibility:
  States, general units of local government, public and private agencies,
  educational institutions, organizations, and individuals involved in the
  development, implementation or operation of correctional programs and
  services.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  States, general units of local government involved in the development,
  implementation or operation of correctional programs and services.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State
  and local governments; OMB Circular No. A-21 cost principles for educational
  institutions; and OMB Circular No. A-122 cost principles for nonprofit
  organizations.
Preapplication Coordination:
  When applying for grants, the standard application forms as furnished by the
  Federal agency and required by OMB Circular No. A-102 must be used for this
  program. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  For project grants, applicant submits proposal on Standard Form 424 - Federal
  Assistance. Applications under this program are subject to State Level Review
  under E.O. 12372 "Intergovernmental Review of Federal programs" which
  provides for a 30 or 60 day review of proposed Federal action and transmittal of
  comments through a Single State Point of Contact. An applicant should consult
  the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or her State
  for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying
  for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review. This program is
  subject to the provisions of OMB Circular Nos. A-102, A-110, A-133.
  Environmental assessment is required for federally funded projects that are a
