  verification process is done. Technical assistance is available to applicants for   
  preparation of the on-line application process by calling the OJP Grants            
  Management System Hotline at 1-888-549-9901.                                        
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  The final payment process requires that all applications and all data be fully      
  processed and verified before any payments are made. Inmate data will be            
  verified by the Department of Homeland Security's (DHS) Immigration and             
  Customs Enforcement (ICE), and U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services.           
  They will attempt to match the inmate data records provided to records in its       
  databases to obtain the maximum number of confirmed matches. These matches          
  are expected to include three categories: 1) those positively identified (matched)

  as qualifying undocumented criminal aliens; 2) those unknowns and 3) those          
  positively identified as non criminal aliens. Applicants will be given credit for a

  percentage of inmates whose eligibility cannot be determined through positive       
  identification or "match," but have valid foreign countries of birth. Payments      
  will be based on the days of incarceration for the verified number of aliens        
  incarcerated by each applicant. Payments are granted by the Director of the         
  Bureau of Justice Assistance, Office of Justice Programs, Department of Justice.    
  The payment must be accepted on-line and the acceptance will effect a               
  simultaneous assurance of compliance with conditions. Acceptance of the             
  payment online initiates the automatic electronic transfer of funds from OJP to     
  the recipient.                                                                      
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Varies annually. See current solicitation.                                          
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  None.                                                                               
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  If additional funding for the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program is            
  allocated by Congress, applications can be submitted annually.                      
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  This program has no statutory formula. Payments are based on the days of            
  incarceration for the verified number of aliens incarcerated by each applicant      
  and cost considerations which are used to determine relative percentage of total    
  available funding each applicant is eligible to receive.                            
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Payments are made within 90 days of application end date.                           
Reports:                                                                              
  No reports are required under this payment program.                                 
Audits:                                                                               
  Recipients who expend $500,000 or more of Federal funds during their fiscal         
  year are required to submit an organization-wide financial and compliance audit     
  report in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-133, as amended, and as stated         
  in the on-line payment process. Receipt of SCAAP payments is considered in          
  establishing the requirement for an audit under the Single Audit Act. In            
  accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June 27,         
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"          
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in         
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that    
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal          
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted    
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                              
Records:                                                                              
  Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, a copy of the         
  inmate records submission, and all other records pertinent to a grant shall be      
  retained for a period of at least three years following the closeout of the grant.  
Account Identification:                                                               
  15-0404-0-1-754.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  FY 07 $399,827,340; FY 08 $410,000,000; and FY 09 est not available.                
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  None.                                                                               
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  This program has assisted states and localities which have requested assistance     
  in defraying the cost incurred for the imprisonment of undocumented criminal        
  aliens, resulting in more than $4 billion in SCAAP funds being distributed to       
  over 660 unique jurisdictions in the last 9 years.                                  
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  OJP Financial Guide and the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program                 
  Guidelines.                                                                         
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  State Criminal Alien Assistance Program, Office of Justice Programs, Bureau of      
  Justice Assistance, Department of Justice, 810 Seventh Street, N.W.,                
  Washington, DC 20531. Contact: Linda Hammond-Deckard. Telephone: (202)              
  616-6500 or (1-866) 859-2687.                                                       
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/bja/grant/scaap.html.                                      


600                                                                             11-08

RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Awards will be made on a pro rata share of the applicants' relative costs of
  incarceration for its qualifying alien prisoners, based on total days of
  incarceration for qualifying undocumented criminal aliens and the applicant's
  per diem salary cost as calculated using the total salary cost and total days of
  incarceration for all inmates, as submitted by each applicant.
16.607 BULLETPROOF VEST PARTNERSHIP PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS, BUREAU OF JUSTICE ASSISTANCE,
  DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Bulletproof Vest Partnership Grant Act of 1998, Public Law 105-181, June 16,
  1998, and Bulletproof Vest Program Act of 2000, Public Law 106-517.
  Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2008, P.L. 110-161.
OBJECTIVES:
  To protect the lives of law enforcement officers by helping State, local, and
  tribal law enforcement agencies provide officers with armored vests.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The program pays up to 50 percent of the total cost of each vest order. Total
  cost includes the cost of the vests, vest carriers, attachments, inserts, and covers
  considered integral or essential for its proper care, use, and wearability,
  shipping, handling, fitting charges, and applicable taxes. The total invoiced
  price, after all vendor and prompt payment discounts have been deducted, is
  what the Bureau of Justice Assistance (BJA) uses to determine the Federal
  match. This program only allows the purchase of body armor that has been
  tested and found to comply with applicable ballistic and stab standards
  promulgated by the National Institute of Justice's (NIJ) Standard 0101.03
  Ballistic Resistance of Police Body Armor. In FY 2001, this program allowed
  the purchase of stab-resistant body armor.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Only chief executives of jurisdictions (or their designees) may apply for funds.
  Jurisdictions are defined as general purpose units of local government (e.g.,
  cities, towns, townships, boroughs, counties, etc.), Federally-recognized Indian
  tribes, the 50 State governments, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth
  of Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam, and the
  Northern Mariana Islands. The chief executive of the jurisdiction registers on-
  line, submits the jurisdiction application, and requests payment for completed
  vest orders.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Only law enforcement officers may receive vests through this program.
  According to the Act, "law enforcement officer" means any officer, agent, or
  employee of a State, unit of local government, or an Indian tribe authorized by
  law or by a government agency to engage in or supervise the prevention,
  detection, or investigation of any violation of criminal law, or authorized by law
  to supervise sentenced criminal offenders. Eligible officers may be full-time,
  part-time, paid or volunteer.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Eligible jurisdictions must be general purpose units of local government,
  Federally-recognized Indian tribes, the 50 state governments, the District of
  Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands,
  American Samoa, Guam, and the Northern Mariana Islands. The validity of the
  on-line registration process is verified through independent reviews which may
  include certification by the banking institutions serving the jurisdiction, the U.S.
  Census Bureau, and agencies within the U.S. Department of Justice.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This is an Internet-based program. The jurisdiction is required to complete and
  submit an on-line registration form, providing information about the
  jurisdiction's chief executive officer, program contact person, and electronic
  banking information. The registration process is handled through the program's
  web site http://vests.ojp.gov. For jurisdictions without Internet capability, other
  means of registration are available. Only those jurisdictions with approved
  registrations are permitted to make application. This program is excluded from
  coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  The jurisdiction submits the application to BJA via the Internet web site
  http://vests.ojp.gov. On-line instructions guide the jurisdiction through the
  application process. Law enforcement agencies or agencies with law
  enforcement functions which meet the Act's definition, will assist in completing
  the jurisdiction's on-line application by indicating the types, numbers, and costs
  of vests they intend to order. For jurisdictions and/or agencies without Internet
  capability, other means of application are available. Only those jurisdictions
  that complete and submit applications will be eligible for matching funds from
