  BJA.                                                                                  
Award Procedure:                                                                        
  Applications received by BJA are reviewed for completeness, accuracy, and             
  compliance with all program requirements. Each application is then checked            
  against the availability of funds to cover up to 50 percent of the application's      
  total cost, in keeping with established criteria for program fund allocation.         
  When all checks are complete and the application approved, the jurisdiction is        
  notified through e-mail that the necessary funds have been obligated.                 
Deadlines:                                                                              
  Jurisdictions are permitted to apply only once per Federal fiscal year.               
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                     
  A minimum of 15 working days may be required for complete registration                
  validation, although jurisdictions and law enforcement agencies will have

  immediate access to certain program components during this validation process.        
  A minimum of 20 working days may be required after the program closes for

  approval of the jurisdiction's application for funding. A minimum of 25               
  working days may be required for the electronic transfer of funds from the U.S.       
  Treasury to the jurisdiction's bank account, once the request for funds has been      
  received, reviewed, and approved by the Office of Justice Programs.                   
Appeals:                                                                                
  None.                                                                                 
Renewals:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                 
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                      
  The program requires that each applicant jurisdiction be responsible for              
  providing at least 50 percent of the cost of each vest purchased. Tribal              
  governments may use Federal funds to provide this match; all other jurisdictions      
  must use nonfederal match funds. Nonfederal fund sources include State and/or         
  local jurisdiction revenues, private or personal funds, and contributions from        
  insurance or workman's compensation consortiums. Asset forfeiture funds may           
  also be used to meet the jurisdiction's matching requirement. Beginning in FY         
  2002, changes (Bulletproof Vest Partnership Act of 2000) (Public Law 106-517)         
  gives preference to small jurisdictions (those populations below 100,000)             
  guaranteeing them the full 50 percent match payment before payments are               
  calculated and approved for larger jurisdictions.                                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                  
  Jurisdictions with approved applications must request the federal match no later      
  than September 30th of the fourth federal fiscal year following the end of the        
  federal fiscal year in which their application was approved. In other words, the      
  jurisdiction has four years beyond the year of their application to request           
  payments for vests contained in that application. Payments of the federal match       
                                                                                        
  will be made whenever the jurisdiction indicates that at least part of the

                                                                                        
  approved vest order was received and invoiced.

                                                                                        
Reports:

                                                                                        
  None.

                                                                                        
Audits:

  Payments and transactions are subject to audits by the General Accounting             
  Office, Department of Justice's Office of the Inspector General, state or local       
  government auditors, and auditors from independent public accounting firms.           
  Jurisdictions must follow their local procurement policies and procedures,            
  including maintenance of reliable and accurate accounting systems, record             
  keeping, and systems of internal control.                                             
Records:                                                                                
  Recipients of federal funds are expected to retain documentation supporting all       
  program transactions for at least three years after the closure of audit reports      
  related to such funding. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, or other       
  action involving records has been started before the expiration of the three year     
  period, the records must be retained until completion of the action and resolution    
  of all related issues, or until the end of the regular three year period, whichever is
                                                                                        
  later.

                                                                                        
Account Identification:

                                                                                        
  15-0404-0-1-754.

                                                                                        
Obligations:

                                                                                        
  FY 07 $26,616,840; FY 08 $23,970,000; and FY 09 est not available.

                                                                                        
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

                                                                                        
  None.

                                                                                        
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

  This program approved 5,129 applications from states, territories, municipalities     
                                                                                        
  and tribal governments. These applications are expected to result in the

                                                                                        
  purchase of approximately 190,000 vests. BJA experiences over a 4 year period

                                                                                        
  of program operations show that system design, technology and hardware

                                                                                        
  adequately supported the program. The technical support help desk successfully

                                                                                        
  fielded thousands of calls and e-mail inquiries from participants.

                                                                                        
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

                                                                                        
  Interim Final Rule, Federal Register, September 23, 1998 (Volume 63, Number

                                                                                        
  184), Internet web site http://vests.ojp.gov.

                                                                                        
Regional or Local Office:

                                                                                        
  None.

                                                                                        
Headquarters Office:

                                                                                        
  Bureau of Justice Assistance, 4th floor, 810 7th Street, N.W., Washington, DC,

                                                                                        


                                                                                   11-08
  20531. Contact: Linda Hammond-Deckard, Telephone: (202) 616-6500, Fax:
  (202) 616-0314, E-mail: askbja@ojp.usdoj.gov/bja. Justice Response Center.
  Telephone: 1-800-421-6770. Vest Technical Support Help Desk. Telephone: (1-
  877) 758-3787.
Web Site Address:
  www.usdoj.gov/bja and vests.ojp.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  None.
16.608 TRIBAL COURT ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS, BUREAU OF JUSTICE ASSISTANCE,
  DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2008, P.L. 110-161.
OBJECTIVES:
  To assist tribal governments in the development, enhancement, and continuing
  operation of tribal judicial systems, including inter-tribal court systems.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Planning grants are designed to help tribal governments without tribal judicial
  systems develop a strategy and implementation plan. Tribes must establish a
  development team that will guide the development of partnerships and identify
  local community priorities for the new court. Implementation/enhancement
  grants are designed to establish a core structure for a tribal court based upon a
  formal plan, or enhance continuing tribal court personnel, acquiring additional
  equipment, enhancing prosecution and indigent defense, and other related
  activities.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Federally recognized Indian Tribal governments are eligible to apply for and
  receive funds under this program. Tribes that received FY 2006 or FY 2007
  funding are not eligible to apply for a FY 2008 grant.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Indian Tribal governments.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with 2 C.F.R., Part 225 for State, local
  and tribal governments.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The standard application forms (SF-424) as furnished by the Federal agency in
  accordance with 28 CFR, Part 66 (Common Rule), must be used for this
  program. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency and required
  by the Common Rule, must be used for this program. Awards through this
  program will be competitive, based upon the extent and urgency of the need of
  each applicant.
Award Procedure:
  BJA reviews applications for completeness, accuracy, and compliance with all
  program requirements. Upon approval by the Assistant Attorney General, OJP,
  award letters and award documents are sent to the grantee. One copy of the
  grant award must be signed by a duly authorized representative and returned to
  BJA.
Deadlines:
  The program solicitation contains application deadlines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Normally, 90 days after receipt of applications.
Appeals:
  See 28 CFR Part 18.
Renewals:
  Any further grant awards are dependant on further tribal court funding and a
  competitive process.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Grant may be made for amounts up to 100 per cent of the costs of the program
  or projects contained in the approved applications.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Generally, up to 18 months.
Reports:
  Unless otherwise specified in the award's special conditions, financial reports are
  due quarterly and progress reports are due semi-annually; in some cases,
  evaluation reports may be required.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
                                                                                    601
