  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal           
  awards as noted in Circular No. A-133. Performance Measures: To assist in            
  fulfilling the Department's responsibilities under the Government Performance        
  and Results Act (GPRA), P.L. 103-62, applicants who receive funding under this       
  solicitation must provide data that measures the results of their work.              
Records:                                                                               
  Recipients of Federal funds are expected to retain documentation supporting all      
  program transactions for at least 3 years after the closure of audit reports related 
  to such funding. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, or other action       
  involving records has been started before the expiration of the 3-year period, the   
  records must be retained until completion of the action and resolution of all        
  related issues, or until the end of the regular 3-year period, whichever is later.   
Account Identification:                                                                
  15-0404-0-1-754.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  FY 07 $7,897,824; FY 08 $8,630,000; and FY 09 est not available.                     
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  CATEGORY I: PLANNING AND IMPLEMENTING AN INTERTRIBAL                                 
  COURT SYSTEM FOR SMALLER POPULATIONS. Grant maximum:                                 
  $200,000. CATEGORY II: PLANNING AND IMPLEMENTING A SINGLE-                           
  TRIBE COURT SYSTEM. Grant maximum: $200,000. CATEGORY III:                           
  ENHANCING OR CONTINUING THE OPERATION OF TRIBAL COURTS:                              
  Grant maximum: $150,000 to $175,000.                                                 
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  Congress appropriated approximately $7.982 million to continue the tribal court      
  initiative. BJA issued a competitive solicitation announcement calling for           
  potential grantees to submit concept papers. Applications submitted will request     
  funding under one of two categories: (1) planning for development of tribal          
  courts; and (2) the implementation, enhancement, and continuing operation of         
  tribal courts.                                                                       
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  Office of Justice Programs Financial Guide and Handbook 4500.2c, Policies and        
  Procedure for the Administration of OJP Grants, are applicable.                      
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  None.                                                                                
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Office of Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Assistance, Department of Justice,     
  810 Seventh Street, N.W., Washington, DC 20531. Contact: Robert Brown, Sr.           
  Policy Advisor. Telephone: (202) 616-6500 or (1-866) 859-2687 or E-mail:             
  AskBJA@usdoj.gov.                                                                    
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  www.ojp.usdoj.gov/bja.                                                               
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  None.                                                                                
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  None.                                                                                
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  None.                                                                                
                                                                                       
16.609 COMMUNITY PROSECUTION AND PROJECT SAFE                                          
                                                                                       
NEIGHBORHOODS                                                                          
      (Community Prosecution Program)                                                  
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS, BUREAU OF JUSTICE ASSISTANCE,                            
  DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE                                                                
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, as amended, Title I; 42          
  U.S.C. 50 et seq.; Crime Control Act of 1990, Public Law 101-647;                    
  Appropriations Act of 2001, Public Law 106-553; Appropriations Act of 2002,          
  Public Law 107-77. Appropriations Act of 2003, 2004, 2006.                           
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  Project Safe Neighborhoods (PSN) is a nationwide commitment and a                    
  comprehensive, strategic approach to reducing gun crime in America by                
  networking existing local programs that target gun crime and providing those         
  programs with additional tools.                                                      
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  The Community Prosecution program focuses on problem solving, strategic              
  planning, and working in partnership with the community to prevent crime and         
  violence and improve public safety. The Community Gun Violence Prosecution           
  program allocates resources directly to chief prosecutors across the country to      
  improve the long-term ability of prosecution agencies to more fully address the      
  issue of firearm-related violent crime within their jurisdictions. Project Safe      
  Neighborhoods is a new national strategy designed to remove gun wielding             
  criminals from the streets and local neighborhoods. In addition to hiring new        
  state and local prosecutors, the funds will be available to support investigations,  
  provide training, develop and promote community outreach efforts, and improve        


602                                                                              11-08

  public safety by supporting other gun crime reduction strategies.
Applicant Eligibility:
  A PSN Task Force has been established in each of the 94 U.S. Attorney
  Districts. Each task force selects a fiscal agent to apply for this program.
  Eligible fiscal agents include states, units of local government, educational
  institutions, faith-based and other community organizations, and private
  nonprofit organizations.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  State and local governments, public and private organizations, Indian Tribal
  government, prosecutor offices.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Eligible applicants must be certified by the U.S. Attorney's Office.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The Project Safe Neighborhoods program is eligible for coverage under E.O.
  12372 "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should
  consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in their
  respective states for more information on the process the state requires to be
  followed in applying for assistance.
Application Procedure:
  The standard application forms (SF-424) as furnished by the Federal agency in
  accordance with 28 CFR, Part 66 (Common Rule), must be used for this
  program. The application procedure and time lines will be contained in the
  program solicitation. Applications must be submitted on-line at the Office of
  Justice Programs, Grant Management System: https://grants.ojp.usdoj.gov/.
Award Procedure:
  The Project Safe Neighborhoods program is eligible for coverage under E.O.
  12372 "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should
  consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in their
  respective states for more information on the process the state requires to be
  followed in applying for assistance.
Deadlines:
  See the program solicitation or contact the Department of Justice, Office of
  Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Assistance, for application deadline.
  Telephone: 1 (866) 859-2687 or by e-mail: AskBJA@usdoj.gov . Applications
  or supplemental materials received by facsimile or postal mail will not be
  accepted.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  120 days after receipt of applications.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Contingent upon congressional funding.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Grants may be made for amounts up to 100 per cent of the costs of the programs
  or projects contained in the approved applications. Districts may use up to 10
  percent of their award for costs associated with administering the funds.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Varies. 24 to 36 months.
Reports:
  Unless otherwise specified in the awards special conditions, financial reports are
  due quarterly and progress reports are due semi-annually. In some cases,
  evaluation reports may be required.
Audits:
  Payments and transactions are subject to audits by the Government
  Accountability Office, Department of Justice's Office of the Inspector General,
  State or local government auditors, and auditors from independent public
  accounting firms. Jurisdictions must follow their local policies and procedures,
  including maintenance of reliable and accurate accounting systems, record
  keeping, and systems of internal control. All organizations that expend financial
  assistance of $500,000 or more in any fiscal year must have a single audit for
  that year in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-133, as amended, unless the
  audit condition on the award says otherwise. These audits are due to the
  cognizant Federal agency not later than 9 months after the end of the grantee's
  fiscal year.
Records:
  Recipients of federal funds are expected to retain documentation supporting all
  program transactions for at least three years after the closure of audit reports
  related to such funding. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, or other
  action involving records has been started before the expiration of the three year
  period, the records must be retained until completion of the action and resolution
  of all related issues, or until the end of the regular three year period, whichever is
  later.
Account Identification:
  15-0401-0-1-754.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $21,000,000; FY 08 $20,000,000; and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Prior awards have ranged from approximately $200,000 to $1,100,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  See web site for current program updates. Bureau of Justice Assistance:
