  http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/BJA/grant/psn.html; Project Safe Neighborhoods:            
  http://www.psn.gov/.                                                                
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Office of Justice Programs Financial Guide and Handbook 4500.2c, Policies and       
  Procedure for the Administration of OJP Grants, are applicable.                     
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  The Project Safe Neighborhoods program is eligible for coverage under E.O.          
  12372 "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should           
  consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in their   
  respective states for more information on the process the state requires to be      
  followed in applying for assistance.                                                
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Office of Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Assistance, Department of Justice,    
  810 Seventh Street, NW., Washington, DC 20531. Contact: Jonathan Faley or           
  Dara Schulman. Telephone: (202) 616-6500 or 1-866-859-2687 or by email at           
  AskBJA@usdoj.gov.                                                                   
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  Bureau of Justice Assistance: http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/BJA/grant/psn.html           
  Project Safe Neighborhoods: http://www.psn.gov/.                                    
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Project Summaries: http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/BJA/grant/04PSNsummary.pdf.             
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  For competitive grants, criteria for selecting proposals is contained within the    
  individual program solicitations. For non-competitive grants, applications          
  received by BJA are reviewed for completeness, accuracy, and compliance with        
  all program requirements.                                                           
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
16.610 REGIONAL INFORMATION SHARING SYSTEMS                                           
   (RISS)                                                                             
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  BUREAU OF JUSTICE ASSISTANCE, OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS,                           
  DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE                                                               
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, Public Law 90-351; 42           
  U.S.C. 3796h.                                                                       
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To enhance the ability of the state and local criminal justice agencies to identify,
  target, and remove criminal conspiracies and activities that span jurisdictional    
  boundaries. The first objective of the Regional Information Sharing Systems         
  Program (RISS) is to encourage and facilitate the rapid exchange and sharing of     
  information among federal, state, and local law enforcement agencies pertaining     
  to known or suspected terrorist, or criminal activity. The second objective is to   
  enhance coordination and communication among agencies that are in pursuit of        
  criminal conspiracies determined to be interjurisdictional in nature. In addition,  
  the RISS Program may provide technical and financial resources to member            
  agencies, such as specialized equipment, training, and investigative funds, to      
  augment existing multijurisdictional enforcement resources and operations.          
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Up to 100 percent of total project grant costs are funded through Federal           
  assistance. Cost-sharing is governed by Appropriation Act requirements.             
  However, projects are encouraged to obtain and utilize additional funds through     
  voluntary contributions, membership fees or dues, fees for service, or other        
  sources from member agencies or governmental units benefiting from project          
  services. Such funds will be considered program income and must be used to          
  augment project operations or to reduce the Federal share of project costs.         
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Six RISS projects are authorized as eligible to receive funding to provide          
  services to law enforcement agencies throughout the nation. The projects are:       
  The Middle Atlantic Great-Lakes Organized Crime Law Enforcement Center              
  (MAGLOCLEN), the Mid-States Organized Crime Information Center                      
  (MOCIC), the New England State Police Information Network (NESPIN), the             
  Regional Organized Crime Information Center (ROCIC), the Rocky Mountain             
  Information Network (RMIN), and the Western States Information Network              
  (WSIN).                                                                             
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  State and local criminal justice agencies; Federal, State, and local law            
  enforcement agencies and personnel benefit from this program.                       
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  The six RISS projects are required to submit a Federal application for assistance,  
  as well as a detailed program and budget narrative.                                 
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372 "Intergovernmental           
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official     
  designated as the single point of contact in their respective states for more       
                                                                                      
                                                                                 11-08
  information on the process the state requires to be followed in applying for
  assistance. The standard application forms (SF-424) as furnished by the federal
  agency in accordance with 28 CFR Part 66 (Common Rule), must be used for
  this program.
Application Procedure:
  The standard application forms furnished by the Federal agency and required by
  the Common Rule, must be used for this program.
Award Procedure:
  BJA reviews applications for completeness, accuracy, and compliance with all
  program requirements.
Deadlines:
  Contact the Bureau of Justice Assistance for application deadlines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  About 90 days prior to the expiration of the project's current active grant.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  A project must submit a written request justifying the need for the extension and
  how the extension would be consistent with the objectives of the grant 60 days
  prior to the expiration of the current grant.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Projects are awarded 100 percent of the project costs and no match is required.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Awards are made for a period of 12 months.
Reports:
  Reporting requirements for grants/projects awarded under the RISS Program are
  articulated in the OJP Financial Guide, as well as the Funding and
  Administration Guidelines of the Regional Information Sharing Systems (RISS)
  Program Guide.
Audits:
  Payments and transactions are subject to audits by the General Accounting
  Office, the Department of Justice's Office of the Inspector General, State or local
  government auditors, and auditors from independent public accounting firms.
  Jurisdictions must follow their local policies and procedures, including
  maintenance of reliable and accurate accounting systems, record keeping, and
  systems of internal control. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular
  No. A-133 (Revised, June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and
  Non-profit Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance
  of $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific
  audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000
  a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that
  year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133. Performance Measures: To assist in
  fulfilling the Departments responsibilities under the Government Performance
  and Results Act (GPRA), Public Law 103-62, applicants who receive funding
  under this solicitation must provide data that measures the results of their work.
Records:
  Recipients of Federal funds are expected to retain documentation supporting all
  program transactions for at least 3 years after the closure of audit reports related
  to such funding. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, or other action
  involving records has been started before the expiration of the 3-year period, the
  records must be retained until completion of the action and resolution of all
  related issues, or until the end of the regular 3-year period, whichever is later.
Account Identification:
  15-0401-0-1-754.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $39,719,145; FY 08 $40,000,000; and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $25 million to be divided among the six RISS projects. (Note: May want to tie
  this dollar amount to a specific fiscal year since amount will fluctuate from year-
  to-year).
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  See web site for current information. Regional Information Sharing Systems:
  http://www.rissinfo.com/ RISS/ATIX: http://www.rissinfo.com/rissatix.htm
  http://www.iir.com/riss/.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Financial Guide, Office of Justice Programs, Office of the Comptroller; BJA's
  Funding and Administration Guidelines of the Regional Information Sharing
  Systems Program, and The Criminal Intelligence Systems Operating Policies (28
  CFR Part 23).
Regional or Local Office:
  See http://www.iir.com/riss/ for the six regions.
Headquarters Office:
  Patrick McCreary, Assoc. Deputy Director, Bureau of Justice Assistance, Fourth
  Floor, 810 Seventh Street, N.W., Washington, DC 20531. Telephone: (202)
  616-6500 or the Justice Response Center, (1-800) 421-6770.
Web Site Address:
  Regional Information Sharing Systems: http://www.rissinfo.com/ RISS/ATIX:
  http://www.rissinfo.com/rissatix.htm.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
                                                                                     603
