  None.                                                                               
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  None.                                                                               
                                                                                      
16.611 CLOSED-CIRCUIT TELEVISING OF CHILD                                             
                                                                                      
VICTIMS OF ABUSE                                                                      
      (CCTV)                                                                          
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  BUREAU OF JUSTICE ASSISTANCE, OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS,                           
  DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE                                                               
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Victims of Child Abuse Act, Public Law 90-351, as amended, 42 U.S.C.                
  3796aa, et seq.                                                                     
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To provide equipment and personnel training for the closed-circuit televising       
  and videotaping of the testimony of children in criminal proceedings for the        
  violation of laws relating to the abuse of children.                                
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Up to 75 percent of total project grant costs may be funded through Federal         
  assistance.                                                                         
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Limited competition--a state or local unit of government that has in effect a law   
  allowing the closed-circuit televising or video taping of testimony of children in  
  criminal proceedings relating to the abuse of children.                             
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  State and local criminal justice agencies; Federal, state, and local law            
  enforcement agencies and personnel; public non-profit organizations, and youth      
  benefit from this program.                                                          
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Eligible states and units of local government.                                      
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372 "Intergovernmental           
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official     
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her respective State for more   
  information on the process the state requires to be followed in applying for        
  assistance. The standard application forms (SF-424) as furnished by the Federal     
  agency in accordance with 28 CFR Part 66 (Common Rule), must be used for            
  this program.                                                                       
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Applicants must follow the instructions contained in the solicitation for the       
  Closed-Circuit Televising of Testimony of Children Who Are Victims of Abuse         
  Grant Program and submit a fully executed application to the Bureau of Justice      
  Assistance, 810 Seventh Street, NW. Fourth Floor, Washington, DC 20531,             
  Attention: Closed-Circuit TV Program Manager. Applicants should submit an           
  original and two copies of the application, along with an electronic copy of the    
  application on disk in WordPerfect or Word for Windows, to BJA for review.          
  BJA must receive the application at least 90 days prior to the anticipated start    
  date of a new or continuation award.                                                
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  BJA reviews applications for completeness, accuracy, and compliance with all        
  program requirements. Upon approval by the Assistant Attorney General, OJP,         
  award letters and award documents are sent to the grantee. One copy of the          
  grant award must be signed by a duly authorized representative and returned to

  BJA.                                                                                
Deadlines:

  The deadline dates vary. Contact BJA for application deadlines.                     
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

  Applications must be approved no later than 60 days after first received unless     
  the Director of BJA informs the applicant of specific reasons for disapproval.      
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  A project must submit a written request justifying the need for the extension and   
  how the extension would be consistent with the objectives of the grant 60 days      
  prior to the expiration of the current grant.                                       
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Projects are awarded 75 percent of the total project costs. A match of 25 percent   
  is required.                                                                        
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Grantees selected for awards will be funded for a period of 12 months.              
Reports:                                                                              
  Reporting requirements for grants and projects awarded under this program are       
  articulated in the OJP Financial Guide, as well as in the program solicitation.     
Audits:                                                                               
  Payments and transactions are subject to audits by the General Accounting           
  Office, the Department of Justice's Office of the Inspector General, State or local 


604                                                                             11-08

  government auditors, and auditors from independent public accounting firms.
  Jurisdictions must follow their local policies and procedures, including
  maintenance of reliable and accurate accounting systems, record keeping, and
  systems of internal control. Performance Measures: To assist in fulfilling the
  Departments responsibilities under the Government Performance and Results
  Act (GPRA), P.L. 103-62, applicants who receive funding under this solicitation
  must provide data that measures the results of their work.
Records:
  Recipients of Federal funds are expected to retain documentation supporting all
  program transactions for at least 3 years after the closure of audit reports related
  to such funding. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, or other action
  involving records has been started before the expiration of the 3-year period, the
  records must be retained until completion of the action and resolution of all
  related issues, or until the end of the regular 3-year period, whichever is later.
Account Identification:
  15-0404-0-1-754.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $976,000; FY 08 $940,000; and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Approximately 10 to 15 grants ranging from a minimum of $50,000 to a
  maximum of $100,000 per grant.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  The American Bar Association (ABA) received an award of $363,731 to
  evaluate the CCTV projects to determine the effectiveness and impact of the
  funded projects in reducing the trauma to child abuse victims during criminal
  hearings or trials. The ABA organized a two-day evaluation conference to assist
  grantees in developing individual evaluation plans; provide technical assistance
  to grantees in developing individual evaluation plans and obtaining the data
  needed to assess the projects; and, on the preparation of a final report
  documenting the assessment, best practices, lessons learned, and
  recommendations to improve the CCTV Program.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Financial Guide, Office of the Comptroller, Office of Justice Programs; BJA's
  Program Guide and Application Kit for the Closed-Circuit Televising of
  Testimony of Children Who Are Victims of Abuse Grant Program.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Office of Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Assistance, Department of Justice,
  810 Seventh Street, N.W., Washington, DC 20531. Contact: K. Norris, Senior
  Policy Advisor at telephone: (202) 616-6500 or (1-866) 859-2687. Or by E-mail:
  AskBJA@usdoj.gov.
Web Site Address:
  www.usdoj.gov/bja.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Applicants can use grant funds to: purchase videotape and closed-circuit
  television equipment to remain in courthouses and/or portable equipment to be
  used by courthouses in other jurisdictions; provide training in videotape and
  closed-circuit interviewing to law enforcement, prosecutors, and related staff;
  prepare booklets outlining the legal requirements and procedures involved in the
  use and operation of videotape and closed-circuit televising; and provide
  training to appropriate staff in the setup and operation of the equipment.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Criteria for selecting proposals are contained in the Program Solicitation.
16.612 NATIONAL WHITE COLLAR CRIME CENTER
   (NWCCC)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  BUREAU OF JUSTICE ASSISTANCE, OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS,
  DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, Public Law 90-351, as
  amended; 42 U.S.C. 3760.
OBJECTIVES:
  NW3C is a federally-funded, non-profit corporation, whose mission is to provide
  a nationwide support system for agencies involved in the prevention,
  investigation, and prosecution of economic and high-tech crimes and to support
  and partner with other appropriate entities in addressing homeland security
  initiatives, as they relate to economic and high-tech crimes. It provides training,
  technical assistance and/or resources to state, local and tribal law enforcement
  agencies on how to prevent, combat, investigate and prosecute economic and
  cyber space crimes. And, provide information to the general public on how to
  prevent and protect against personal identity theft, fraud (telemarketing, bank
  card, insurance, etc.) and formally register Internet crime complaints with
  various authorities.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
