  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Up to 100 percent of total project grant costs are funded through federal           
  assistance. Cost-sharing is governed by Appropriation Act requirements.             
  However, the project is encouraged to obtain and utilize additional funds,          
  through voluntary contributions, membership fees or dues, fees for service, or      
  other sources, from member agencies or governmental units benefiting from           
  project services. Such funds will be considered program income and must be          
  used to augment project operations or to reduce the federal share of project        
  costs.                                                                              
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  State and local law enforcement authorities.                                        
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  State and local criminal justice agencies; federal, state, and local law            
  enforcement agencies, as well as regulatory agencies benefit from this program.     
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  The NWCCC is required to submit a federal application for assistance, as well as    
  a detailed program and budget narrative.                                            
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372 "Intergovernmental           
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official     
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her respective state for more   
  information on the process the state requires to be followed in applying for        
  assistance. The standard application forms (SF-424) as furnished by the federal     
  agency in accordance with 28 CFR, Part 66 (Common Rule), must be used for           
  this program.                                                                       
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Application is submitted electronically through the Office of Justice Programs

  Grant Management System at: https://grants.ojp.usdoj.gov/.                          
Award Procedure:

  BJA reviews applications for completeness, accuracy, and compliance with all        
  program requirements. Upon approval by the Assistant Attorney General, letters

  and an award package are sent to the grantee. One copy of the grant award must      
  be signed by duly authorized representative and returned to BJA.                    
Deadlines:                                                                            
  The application is due 90 days prior to completion of previous fiscal year          
  funding.                                                                            
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Approximately 90 days prior to the expiration of the project's current active       
  grant.                                                                              
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  A project must submit a written request justifying the need for the extension and   
  how the extension would be consistent with the objectives of the grant 60 days      
  prior to the expiration of the current grant.                                       
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Project is awarded 100 percent of the project costs and no match is required.       
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Awards are made for a period of 12 months.                                          
Reports:                                                                              
  Reporting requirements for grants and projects awarded under the NWCCC              
  program are articulated in the OJP Financial Guide.                                 
Audits:                                                                               
  Payments and transactions are subject to audits by the General Accounting           
  Office, the Department of Justice's Office of the Inspector General, State or local 
  government auditors, and auditors from independent public accounting firms.         
  Jurisdictions must follow their local policies and procedures, including            
  maintenance of reliable and accurate accounting systems, record keeping, and        
  systems of internal control. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular      
  No. A-133 (Revised, June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and       
  Non- Profit Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance    
  of $500,000 or more in federal awards will have a single or a program-specific      
  audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000   
  a year in federal awards are exempt from federal audit requirements for that year,  
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133. Performance Measures: To assist in           
  fulfilling the Departments responsibilities under the Government Performance        
  and Results Act (GPRA), Public Law 103-62, applicants who receive funding           
  under this solicitation must provide data that measures the results of their work.  
Records:                                                                              
  Recipients of federal funds are expected to retain documentation supporting all     
  program transactions for at least 3 years after the closure of audit reports related
  to such funding. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, or other action      
  involving records has been started before the expiration of the 3-year period, the  
  records must be retained until completion of the action and resolution of all       
  related issues, or until the end of the regular 3-year period, whichever is later.  
Account Identification:                                                               
  15-0401-0-1-754.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  FY 06 $8,885,052; FY 07 est $8,885,052; and FY 08 est not available.                


                                                                                 11-08
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $7,000,000 to $10,000,000. (Note: May want to tie this amount to a specific
  fiscal year since the amount will fluctuate from year-to-year.)
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  This program has significantly enhanced the ability of federal, State and local
  agencies to identify, investigate, apprehend, and prosecute white collar
  criminals. Approximately 1300 enforcement personnel were trained in computer
  crime subjects and the NWCCC hosted its second annual economic crime
  summit.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Financial Guide, Office of Justice Programs, Office of the Comptroller, and The
  Criminal Intelligence Systems Operating Policies (28 CFR 23).
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Bureau of Justice Assistance, Program Development Division, Fourth Floor, 810
  Seventh Street, N.W., Washington, DC 20531. Contact: David Lewis,
  Telephone: (202) 616-6500 or (1-866) 859-2687 or by E-mail:
  AskBJA@usdoj.gov.
Web Site Address:
  National White Collar Crime Center: http://www.nw3c.org/
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  None.
16.614 STATE AND LOCAL ANTI-TERRORISM TRAINING
   (SLATT)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  BUREAU OF JUSTICE ASSISTANCE, OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS,
  DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Anti-Terrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996, Section 822;
  Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2008, P.L. 110-161.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide delivery of specialized, multi-agency anti-terrorism preparedness
  training. This training, along with related research, law enforcement
  intelligence, operational issues development, and technical assistance support
  activities, is delivered to state and local law enforcement and prosecution
  authorities. While state and local law enforcement preparation and readiness
  issues addressed in this project are tailored to interventions in domestic
  terrorism, major portions of the program's preparedness and operational
  readiness outcomes are equally applicable to any terrorist threat or incident
  whether domestically or internationally inspired.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Training; Dissemination of Technical Information; Advisory Services and
  Counseling.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grant program funds are intended to: (1) provide state and local law enforcement
  (including prosecution authorities) a general awareness and working knowledge
  of domestic terrorist and "political" extremist movements; (2) disseminate
  information relating to vital elements of law enforcement anti-terrorism
  preparedness and readiness; (3) provide a general planning orientation to State
  and local law enforcement pertaining to crisis and consequence management and
  incident command, including essential elements requisite to conducting criminal
  investigations and prosecutions of terrorist threats and incidents; and 4)
  maintain and enhance a domestic terrorism public source database. Standard
  restrictions as outlined in OJP's Financial Guide apply.
Applicant Eligibility:
  For-profit (commercial) organizations; nonprofit organizations; faith-based and
  community organizations; institutions of higher education; and consortiums with
  significant and demonstrated experience in terror prevention strategies and in
  delivering training and technical assistance to law enforcement and tribal
  communities are eligible to apply. For-profit organizations must agree to waive
  any profit or fees for services. Joint applications from a consortium must identify
  the primary applicant and co-applicant(s), and letters of support that outline the
  partners' responsibilities must be provided. Faith-Based and other community
  organizations consistent with President George W. Bush's Executive Order
  13279, dated December 12, 2002, and 28 C.F.R. Part 38. It is DOJs policy that
  faith-based and other community organizations that statutorily qualify as eligible
  applicants under DOJ programs are invited and encouraged to apply for
  assistance awards to fund eligible grant activities. Faith-based and other
  community organizations will be considered for awards on the same basis as
  other eligible applicants and, if they receive assistance awards, will be treated on
  an equal basis with all other grantees in the administration of such awards. No
  eligible applicant or grantee will be discriminated for or against on the basis of
                                                                                    605
