  its religious character or affiliation, religious name, or the religious composition 
  of its board of directors or persons working in the organization. Faith-based        
  organizations receiving DOJ assistance awards retain their independence and do       
  not lose or have to modify their religious identity (e.g., removing religious        
  symbols) to receive assistance awards. DOJ grant funds, however, may not be          
  used to fund any inherently religious activity, such as prayer or worship.           
  Inherently religious activity is permissible, although it cannot occur during an     
  activity funded with DOJ grant funds; rather, such religious activity must be        
  separate in time or place from the DOJ-funded program. Further, participation in     
  such activity by individuals receiving services must be voluntary. Programs          
  funded by DOJ are not permitted to discriminate in the provision of services on      
  the basis of a beneficiary's religion.                                               
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  State and local criminal justice agencies are the primary beneficiaries of this      
  program.                                                                             
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  All applicants are required to submit an application for assistance, as well as a    
  detailed program and budget narrative.                                               
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372 "Intergovernmental            
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official      
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her respective State for more    
  information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for         
  assistance. The standard application forms (SF-424) as furnished by the Federal      
  agency in accordance with 28 CFR, Part 66 (Common Rule), must be used for            
  this program.                                                                        
Application Procedure:

  The applicant must follow the instructions pertinent to completing the SF-424,       
  and the financial conditions prescribed in the OJP Financial Guide, and submit a

                                                                                       
  fully executed application to the Bureau of Justice Assistance, 810 7th Street,

  NW., Fourth Floor, Washington, DC 20531. Complete instructions can be found          
  at www.grants.gov. If you experience difficulties at any point during this

  process, please call the Grants.gov Customer Support Hotline. Telephone: 1-          
  800-518-4726.                                                                        
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  BJA reviews applications for completeness, accuracy, and compliance with all         
  program requirements. Upon approval by the Assistant Attorney General, OJP,          
  award letters and award documents are sent to the grantee. One copy of the grant     
  award must be signed by a duly authorized representative and returned to BJA.        
Deadlines:                                                                             
  The applicant must submit the application at such time as to enable program          
  continuation without interruption, allowing for a 90-day application processing      
  period, and not later than 90 days prior to the end of the current fiscal year.      
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Approximately 90 days prior to the expiration of the project's current active        
  grant.                                                                               
Appeals:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                
Renewals:                                                                              
  A project must submit a written request justifying the need for the extension and    
  how the extension would be consistent with the objectives of the grant within 60     
  days.                                                                                
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  The project is awarded at 100 percent of project costs; no match is required.        
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Awards are made for a period of 12 months.                                           
Reports:                                                                               
  Reporting requirements for grants awarded under this program are articulated in      
  the OJP Financial Guide.                                                             
Audits:                                                                                
  Payments and transactions are subject to audits by the General Accounting            
  Office, Department of Justice's Office of the Inspector General, State or local      
  government auditors, and auditors from independent public accounting firms.          
  Jurisdictions must follow their local policies and procedures, including             
  maintenance of reliable and accurate accounting systems, record keeping, and         
  systems of internal control.                                                         
Records:                                                                               
  Recipients of Federal funds must retain all project related documentation for 3      
  years from the date of the final financial status report unless an audit has been    
  initiated or an unresolved audit finding remains. This is in accordance with         
  Federal retention requirements to ensure the availability of complete information    
  should an audit be conducted.                                                        
Account Identification:                                                                
  15-0401-0-1-754.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  FY 07 $0; FY 08 $2,000,000; and FY 09 est not available.                             
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  One cooperative agreement for up to $4.75 million will be awarded for a project      
  period of 12 months.                                                                 
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               


606                                                                              11-08

  The Institute for Intergovernmental Research (IIR) coordinated curriculum
  development activities, secured appropriate facilities for training delivery, and
  delivered training through the Center for Task Force Training, SLATT Project.
  SLATT conducted a total of 50 workshops, training sessions, and focus groups
  with 7600 line officers and 586 law enforcement executive officers trained.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Financial Guide, Office of Justice Programs, Office of the Comptroller.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Office of Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Assistance, Department of Justice,
  810 Seventh Street, N.W., Washington, DC 20531. Contact: Michael Medaris,
  Senior Policy Advisor. Telephone: (202) 616-6500 or (1-866) 859-2687; or E-
  mail: AskBJA@usdoj.gov.
Web Site Address:
  www.usdoj.gov/bja.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  16.006, County and Municipal Agency Domestic Preparedness Equipment
  Support Program; 97.004, State Domestic Preparedness Equipment Support
  Program; 16.577, Emergency Federal Law Enforcement Assistance.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Anti-terrorist preparedness training, anti-terrorist research, operational issues
  development, and technical assistance support activities.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Applications received by BJA are reviewed for completeness, accuracy, and
  compliance with all program requirements.
16.615 PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICERS' EDUCATIONAL
ASSISTANCE
   (PSOEA)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS, BUREAU OF JUSTICE ASSISTANCE,
  DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Educational Assistance to Dependents of Civilian Federal Law Enforcement
  Officers Killed or Disabled in the Line of Duty, 42 U.S.C. 3796d.
OBJECTIVES:
  The PSOEA Program, an expansion of the Federal Law Enforcement
  Dependents Assistance (FLEDA) Program, provides financial assistance for
  higher education to the spouses and children of public safety officers killed in
  line of duty. The PSOEA Program also makes assistance available to spouses
  and children of public safety officers permanently and totally disabled by
  catastrophic injuries sustained in the line of duty. Under the PSOEA program,
  the families of state and local police, fire, and emergency public safety officers
  are covered for line-of-duty deaths that occurred on or after January 1, 1978. The
  families of Federal law enforcement officers and firefighters are covered for line
  of duty deaths occurring on or after October 12, 1984. The effective date for
  families of permanently and totally disabled Federal law enforcement officers is
  October 3, 1996. Families of state and local police, fire, and emergency public
  safety officers are covered for line-of-duty permanent and totally disabling
  injuries that occurred on or after October 1, 1997. Families of Federal
  Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) personnel and state, local and tribal
  emergency management and civil defense agency employees are covered for
  such injuries sustained on or after October 30, 2000.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments with Unrestricted Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Program funds are intended solely to defray eligible applicants' educational
  expenses, which may include tuition, fees, room and board, books, supplies, and
  other expenditures consistent with the educational, professional or vocational
  objectives of the applicant. Funds are restricted to defray above costs only.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Dependents who (1) attend a program of education at an eligible institution; or
  (2) are the spouse and/or surviving children under the age of 27 of Federal, state
  and local public safety officers, whose deaths or permanent and totally disabling
  injuries are covered by the Public Safety Officers' Benefits (PSOB) Program (42
  U.S.C. 3796 et seq.) are eligible for this program. A public safety officer is a
  person serving a public agency in an official capacity, with or without
  compensation, as a law enforcement officer, firefighter or member of a public
  rescue squad or ambulance crew.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  The spouse and surviving children of Federal, state and local public safety
  officers receive the ultimate benefits from this program. The children may
  receive benefits for classes taken before their twenty-seventh birthday. There is
  no age restriction for spouses.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Documentation needed to apply for assistance includes: the Application for
  Public Safety Officer's Educational Assistance (42 U.S.C. 3796 d); educational
