  transcripts; acceptance letters to educational/professional institutions; schedule    
  of classes; verification of full or part-time status; and certification of other forms
  of educational assistance. Contact the PSOB office. Telephone: (1-888) 744-           
  6513 or E-mail: AskPSOB@usdoj.gov, for full credential/documentation                  
  requirements.

Preapplication Coordination:                                                            
  Claimants may initiate a claim by writing or telephoning the PSOEA Program,

  Benefits Office, Bureau of Justice Assistance, 810 Seventh Street, N.W.,              
  Washington, DC 20531. Telephone: (1-888) 744-6513 or E-mail:                          
  AskPSOB@usdoj.gov. This program is excluded from E.O. 12372                           
  "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs."                                       
Application Procedure:                                                                  
  The applicant must submit a fully executed application to the PSOEA Program,          
  Benefits Office, Bureau of Justice Assistance, 810 Seventh Street, N.W.,              
  Washington, DC 20531.                                                                 
Award Procedure:                                                                        
  Upon a finding of eligibility by the Bureau of Justice Assistance, claimants are      
  typically awarded funds in 4 month increments for prospective assistance or           
  more if requesting retroactive reimbursement.                                         
Deadlines:                                                                              
  There are no deadlines for applicants to request benefits. Spouses and children       
  of public safety officers (who have been found eligible under the PSOB                
  Program) can, at any time, request retroactive assistance for educational costs.      
  These costs must have been incurred following the officer's death and, for the        
  children, prior to their twenty-seventh birthday. There is no age restriction for     
  officers spouses.                                                                     
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                     
  Dependent on sufficiency of claim documentation.                                      
Appeals:                                                                                
  Applicants may appeal within 30 days of denial notification. The appeal process       
  consists of a record review by an administration hearing officer.                     
Renewals:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                 
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                      
  None.                                                                                 
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                  
  Assistance is available for 45 months of full-time education or training, or for a    
  proportional period of time for a part-time program. Assistance is typically          
  awarded in 9-month installments to coincide with the length of a school               
  semester.                                                                             
Reports:                                                                                
  None.                                                                                 
Audits:                                                                                 
  None.                                                                                 
Records:

                                                                                        
  None.

                                                                                        
Account Identification:

                                                                                        
  15-0403-0-1-754.

                                                                                        
Obligations:

                                                                                        
  FY 07 $4,012,095; FY 08 $3,980,000; and FY 09 est not available.

                                                                                        
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

                                                                                        
  For classes taken since October 1, 2002, the rates of assistance are $600 per

                                                                                        
  month for full-time students. $510 for three-quarter-time student. $340 for half-

                                                                                        
  time students and $170 for less-than-half-time students. The amount of

                                                                                        
  assistance is subject to change consistent with the current computation of

                                                                                        
  educational assistance allowance set forth in Title IV of the Higher Education

                                                                                        
  Act, Section 3532 of Title 38, U.S.C.

                                                                                        
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                
  PSOEA has developed an E-package. The PSOEA application can be

                                                                                        
  downloaded from the PSOB website at:

                                                                                        
  http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/BJA/index.html, or

                                                                                        
  http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/BJA/grant/psob/psob_education.html.

                                                                                        
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                
  The Bureau of Justice Assistance's Public Safety Officers' Educational

                                                                                        
  Assistance Program Fact Sheet (August 1999); Federal Register guidelines are

                                                                                        
  available.

                                                                                        
Regional or Local Office:                                                               
  None.

                                                                                        
Headquarters Office:

                                                                                        
  office of Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Assistance, Department of Justice,

                                                                                        
  810 Seventh Street, N.W., Washington, DC 20531. Contact: Eric Martin,

                                                                                        
  Benefits Specialist. Telephone: (888) 744-6513 or (202) 616-6500, or E-mail:

                                                                                        
  AskPSOB@usdoj.gov.

                                                                                        
Web Site Address:

                                                                                        
  Public Safety Officers' Benefits:

                                                                                        
  http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/BJA/grant/psob/psob_main.html.                               
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                       
  16.571, Public Safety Officers' Benefits Program; 16.575, Crime Victim                
  Assistance; 16.576, Crime Victim Compensation; 16.615, Public Safety                  
  Officers' Educational Assistance.                                                     
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

                                                                                   11-08
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Applications received by BJA are reviewed for completeness, accuracy, and
  compliance with all program requirements.
16.616 INDIAN COUNTRY ALCOHOL AND DRUG
PREVENTION
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS, BUREAU OF JUSTICE ASSISTANCE,
  DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Department of Justice Appropriations Act of 2001, as enacted by Section 1(a) of
  the District of Columbia Appropriations Act of 2001, Public Law 106-533, and
  as amended by Section 1(a)(4) of the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2001,
  Public Law 106-553.
OBJECTIVES:
  To assist tribal governments in the development and implementation of
  programs to reduce alcohol abuse and crime.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The Indian Alcohol and Substance Abuse Program (IASAP) provides funding
  and technical assistance to federally recognized tribal governments to plan,
  develop, implement, or enhance tribal justice strategies involving alcohol and
  crime, as well as substance abuse, as strategies have indicated a correlation
  between alcohol and substance abuse. No match is required for personnel.
  However, if a position under IASAP is supported with BJA funds, total costs
  associated with salary and fringe benefits may not exceed 50 percent of the
  grant. Funds awarded through this program to the following tribes may not be
  used for courts or law enforcement officers for a tribe or village, pursuant to
  Public Law 108-199 S. 112(a)(1): (1) tribes in which fewer than 25 Native
  members live in the village year round; and (2) tribes that are located within the
  boundaries of the Fairbanks North Star Borough, the Matanuska Susitna
  Borough, the Municipality of Anchorage, the Kenai Peninsula Borough, the City
  and Borough of Juneau, the Sitka Borough, or the Ketchikan Borough.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. Section 524 note, applicants are limited to federally
  recognized tribal governments, including eligible Alaska Native villages and
  corporations, and authorized intertribal consortia see 25 U.S.C. Section 450.
  Intertribal consortia must have and retain written authorization from each
  member tribe prior to this solicitation's submission deadline and certify the same
  in the application. Tribes that received funding from the FY 2006 or FY 2007
  program ARE NOT ELIGIBLE to apply for a FY 2008 supplemental award.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Federally recognized Tribal governments.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State
  and local governments.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  The standard application forms as furnished by the federal agency and required
  by the Common Rule, must be used for this program. Awards through this
  program will be competitive, based upon the extent and the urgency of the need
  of each applicant.
Award Procedure:
  Upon approval by the Assistant Attorney General, letters and an award package
  are sent to the grantee. One copy of the grant award must be signed by duly
  authorized representative and returned to the Bureau of Justice Assistance
  (BJA).
Deadlines:
  See the program solicitation or contact the Department of Justice, Office of
  Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Assistance, for application deadline.
  Telephone: 1-866-859-2687 or by e-mail at: AskBJA@usdoj.gov.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Applications will generally be approved or denied within 90 days of the receipt
  of a completed application.
Appeals:
  See 28 CFR Part 28 for standards.
Renewals:
  Any further grant awards are dependent on further funding and grant
  performance.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Generally 18 months, however, they could vary depending on program goals and
  objectives.
Reports:
  Unless otherwise specified in the award's special conditions, financial reports are
                                                                                    607
