  due quarterly and progress reports are due semi-annually. In some cases,              
  evaluation reports may be required.                                                   
Audits:                                                                                 
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June            
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"        
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in           
  federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that      
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in federal            
  awards are exempt from federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted      
  in Circular No. A-133. Performance Measures: To assist in fulfilling the              
  Department's responsibilities under the Government Performance and Results            
  Act (GPRA), Public Law 103-62, applicants who receive funding under this              
  solicitation must provide data that measures the results of their work.               
Records:                                                                                
  Recipients of federal funds are expected to retain documentation supporting all       
  programs transactions for at least 3 years after the closure of audit reports related 
  to such funding. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, or other action        
  involving records has been started before the expiration of the 3-year period, the    
  records must be retained until completion of the action and resolution of all         
  related issues, or until the end of the regular 3-year period, whichever is later.    
Account Identification:                                                                 
  15-0404-0-1-754.                                                                      
Obligations:                                                                            
  FY 07 $4,936,140; FY 08 $5,180,000; and FY 09 est not available.                      
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                              
  The program announcement will contain information regarding the range and             
  average level of financial assistance. Additional information will be posted on       
  the BJA website (www.ojp.usdoj.gov/BJA) at a later date.                              
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                
  For information on tribal justice strategies and best practices, visit the National   
  Tribal Justice Resource Center's web site at http://www.tribalresourcecenter.org.     
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                
  Office of Justice Programs Financial Guide and Handbook 4500.2C, Policies             
  and Procedures for the Administration of OJP Grants, are applicable.                  
Regional or Local Office:                                                               
  None.                                                                                 
Headquarters Office:                                                                    
  Office of Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Assistance, 810 Seventh Street,         
  N.W., Washington, DC 20531. Contact: Robert Brown, Senior Policy Advisor,             
  Telephone: (202) 616-3297 or (1-866) 859-2687 or E-mail:                              
  AskBJA@usdoj.gov.                                                                     
Web Site Address:                                                                       
  Indian Country Alcohol and Drug Prevention Program:                                   
  http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/BJA/grant/indian.html.                                       
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                       
  None.                                                                                 
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                            
  None.                                                                                 
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                       
  Contact BJA for more information.                                                     
                                                                                        
16.710 PUBLIC SAFETY PARTNERSHIP AND                                                    
COMMUNITY POLICING GRANTS                                                               
                                                                                        
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                         
  OFFICE OF COMMUNITY ORIENTED POLICING SERVICES,                                       
  DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE                                                                 
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                          
  Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, 42 U.S.C. 3796, as                
  amended; Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994, Title I, Part         
  Q, Public Law 103-322.                                                                
OBJECTIVES:                                                                             
  To advance the practice of community policing as an effective strategy in             
  communities' efforts to improve public safety. COPS grants support innovative         
  programs that respond directly to the existing and emerging needs of state, local,    
  and tribal law enforcement, to shift law enforcements focus to preventing, rather     
  than solely responding to crime and disorder within their communities; develop        
  state-of-the-art training and technical assistance to enhance law enforcement         
  officers problem- solving and community interaction skills, promote                   
  collaboration between law enforcement and community members to develop                
  innovative initiatives to prevent crime, and provide responsive, cost effective       
  service delivery to our grantees to ensure success in advancing community             
  policing strategies within their communities.                                         
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                    
  Project Grants.                                                                       
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                              
  Grants provide funding to (1) provide state, local, and tribal law enforcement        
  agencies with grants for equipment, technology, officers, and training that           
  enable law enforcement to build and strengthen their community policing               
  infrastructure, and provided technical assistance to ensure that agencies are         


608                                                                               11-08

  properly and effectively implementing the grant funding; (2) provide training,
  convening conferences, providing publication products, disseminating best
  practices, promoting law enforcement and community partnerships, and
  conducting program evaluations.
Applicant Eligibility:
  States, units of local government, Federally Recognized Indian tribal
  governments, U.S. territories or possessions (including the Commonwealth of
  Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Mariana
  Islands), other public and private entities, and multi-jurisdictional or regional
  consortia thereof.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  States, units of local government, Federally Recognized Indian tribal
  governments, U.S. territories or possessions (including the Commonwealth of
  Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Mariana
  Islands), other public and private entities, and multi-jurisdictional or regional
  consortia thereof.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Applicant submits application and budget forms as well as other required
  documentation (including required assurances, certifications, retention
  information, lobbying, etc.) prescribed by the grantor agency and approved by
  OMB, as outlined in the Application Kit. Application Kits are available from the
  grantor agency. At the time of submission, an original and two copies of the
  application are required with original signatures of duly authorized
  representatives (usually the Law Enforcement and Government Executive).The
  COPS Office offers the option of applying for COPS Grants online using the
  collaborative, multiple-agency E-government initiative Grants.gov. If applicants
  apply using Grants.gov, the agency is required to complete the mandatory online
  forms and submit the application through their Authorized Organizational
  Representative.
Award Procedure:
  Upon approval by the Director, Office of Community Oriented Policing
  Services, award notification letters will be sent to grantees. The grant award
  must be signed by a duly authorized representative and returned to the
  designated office within 90 days of the award mail date.
Deadlines:
  Application deadlines vary among grant programs and are noted on grant
  application materials. Contact the grantor agency for specific application
  deadlines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Normally between 4-6 months after receipt of application. Award
  announcements vary depending on the grant program.
Appeals:
  See 28 C.F.R. Part 18.
Renewals:
  COPS grants are made for between 1 and 3 years depending on the program.
  Renewals and/or extensions may be available under some grant programs and
  will be considered on a case-by-case basis. If available, extensions should be
  requested not sooner than 90 days prior to the expiration of the original project
  period.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Awards can be made for 75 percent of allowable project costs. Innovative grant
  programs may cover 100 percent of the total project cost, up to a maximum
  amount as specified in the application, with no local match required. Unless the
  requirement of a nonfederal share is waived, nonfederal funds must pay the
  difference. The nonfederal share of hiring grants must increase year-to-year over
  the grant period.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  COPS grants are made for between 1 and 3 years depending on the program.
  Assistance is released on a reimbursement or limited advance basis.
Reports:
  Annual programmatic reports and quarterly financial status reports will be
  required as stipulated in the effective edition of the relevant grant owner's
  manual distributed by the grantor agency. Other reporting requirements, such as
  a final progress report and a closeout report may also be required depending on
  the grant program.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, as amended, all
  grantees that expend Federal financial assistance of $500,000 or more during the
  fiscal year shall have an audit made for the year. Grantees receiving less than
  $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements,
  but records must be retained and available for review by appropriate officials of
  the Federal grantor agency.
