  and/or programs designed for juvenile justice system involved youth; reentry         
  youth; and youth in foster care. States were required to partner with mentoring      
  organizations and/or other public/private non-profit organizations to develop the    
  mentoring strategies and/or programs targeted for the identified populations and     
  to establish statewide mentoring partnerships. Through this program, States          
  advocated and promoted public policies and legislation that strengthened             
  mentoring for youth involved in the juvenile justice system; youth transitioning     
  from the juvenile justice system to the community; and youth in foster care.         
  Also, States developed statewide systems to track the prevalence of mentoring        
  strategies and/or programs targeted for these youth.                                 
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  Office of Justice Programs Financial Guide is applicable.                            
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  None.                                                                                
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention, Office of Justice             
  Programs, 810 Seventh Street, N.W., Washington, DC 20531. Telephone: (202)           
  307-5914.                                                                            
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.usdoj.gov.                                                                
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  None.                                                                                
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  None.                                                                                
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  Applications are judged according to their consistency with the policies and         
  program priorities established by the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency               
  Prevention Act. Specific criteria are published in the individual program            
  announcement. Applications undergo a competitive peer review process as              
  outlined in the OJJDP Competition and Peer Review Policy, 28 CFR Part 34.            
                                                                                       
16.727 ENFORCING UNDERAGE DRINKING LAWS                                                
PROGRAM                                                                                
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  OFFICE OF JUVENILE JUSTICE AND DELINQUENCY PREVENTION,                               
  OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS, DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE                                    
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  The statutory authority for the EUDL Block Grant Program may be found within         
  Section 504 of the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act, 42 U.S.C.        
  5783. Congress has delegated the authority to administer the EUDL Program to         
  the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention (OJJDP), in the U. S.      
  Department of Justice's (DOJ's) Office of Justice Programs (OJP)under the            
  Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2008, P.L. 110-161.                                 
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  The EUDL Program supports and enhances states' and local jurisdictions' efforts      
  to prohibit the sale of alcoholic beverages to minors and the purchase and           
  consumption of alcoholic beverages by minors. (For the purpose of this               
  solicitation, "minors" are defined as individuals under the age of 21.) Activities   
  under the EUDL Program may include: -Statewide task forces of state and local        
  law enforcement and prosecutorial agencies to target establishments suspected of     
  a pattern of violations of state laws governing the sale and consumption of          
  alcohol by minors. -Public advertising programs to educate establishments            
  about statutory prohibitions and sanctions. -Innovative programs to prevent and      
  combat underage drinking.                                                            
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  The Enforcing the Underage Drinking Laws (EUDL) Program allocates block              
  grants for every state and the District of Columbia to enforce state laws            
  prohibiting the sale of alcoholic beverages to minors and to prevent the purchase    
  or consumption of alcoholic beverages by minors. From fiscal years (FYs) 1998        
  to 2008, Congress appropriated $25 million annually to OJJDP for its EUDL            
  program. In fiscal year 2008, a total of $25 million will be awarded as block and    
  discretionary grants in the following manner: Funds will be dispersed in the         
  amount of $350,000 to each State, each Territory, and the District of Columbia       
  in block grants totaling $19,600,000.00 to support and enhance efforts by States,    
  in cooperation with local jurisdictions, to prohibit the sale of alcoholic beverages 
  to, or consumption of alcoholic beverages by minors. Funds will be dispersed to      
  support discretionary program activities in local jurisdictions, as well as training 
  and technical assistance to all States. To support local discretionary               
  programming activity, funds plan to be competitively awarded to State agencies       
  receiving block grants. The local programs implement the comprehensive               
  approach to curtailing access and consumption of alcoholic beverages by              
  minors, including the enforcement of laws pertaining to underage alcohol             
  purchase, possession, and use. For purposes of this initiative, minors are defined   
  as individuals under 21 years of age. These funds cannot be used to supplant         
  existing programs and activities (Supplanting means to deliberately reduce State     
  or local funds because of the existence of Federal funds).                           
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 


610                                                                              11-08

  To receive a Block Grant, Governors and the Mayor of the District of Columbia
  designated an agency to serve as the point of contact to apply for, receive, and
  administer the targeted grant funds. The designated State agencies may apply to
  receive a Discretionary Grant. Their applications must detail a comprehensive
  approach to curtailing access and consumption of alcoholic beverages by
  minors, including the enforcement of underage drinking laws and how that
  approach will be implemented by State-selected local communities. States are
  encouraged to link with ongoing public and private efforts (including those of
  foundations and national organizations). Training and technical assistance were
  made available through a separate application process.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  States are eligible to apply for discretionary funds through a separate application
  process.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Each applicant applying for funds must submit a completed application,
  including signed assurances that it will comply with administrative
  requirements.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Applicants must submit completed Standard Form 424 and other information
  outlined in the Application Kit to the Office of Justice Programs, Office of
  Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention. Each applicant must detail a
  comprehensive approach to enforcing underage drinking laws and describe how
  the Federal funds will be used to contribute to the implementation of that
  comprehensive approach. States are encouraged to link with ongoing public and
  private efforts (including law enforcement agencies and those of foundations and
  national organizations). The receipt, review, and analysis of applications will
  follow Office of Justice Programs policies and procedures for the administration
  of grant applications.
Award Procedure:
  A letter with copies of the grant award is sent to the applicant agency upon
  approval by the Office of Justice Programs. One copy of the grant award must be
  signed by an authorized official and returned to the Office of Justice Programs.
  Local units of government will receive Enforcing Underage Drinking Laws
  funds through the applicant agency subgrant award process.
Deadlines:
  Contact the State Relations and Assistance Division, OJJDP. Telephone: (202)
  307-5924, and the Demonstration Programs Division OJJDP. Telephone: (202)
  307-5914, for application deadlines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Applications will generally be approved within 30 to 45 days of receipt of a
  complete application.
Appeals:
  Hearings and appeal procedures will follow 28 CFR Part 18, of the Department
  of Justice Regulations.
Renewals:
  Renewals are subject to appropriations.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  In fiscal year 2007 a total of $24,817,385 was appropriated and allocated. These
  funds were disbursed through assistance awards of $350,000 to each State and
  the District of Columbia; discretionary funds in the amount of $6,640,000. For
  fiscal year 2008, a total of $19,600,000.00 will be awarded as block grants in
  the following manner: Funds will be dispersed in the amount of $350,000 to
  each State, each Territory, and the District of Columbia to support and enhance
  EUDL efforts.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Awards are made for 12 to 36 months.
Reports:
  Quarterly financial and semiannual progress reports are required.
Audits:
  All organizations that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in any
  fiscal year must have a single audit for that year in accordance with OMB
  Circular No. A-133, as described in OJP's Financial Guide, Chapter 19.
Records:
  In accordance with the requirement set forth in 28 CFR Parts 66 and 70,
  recipients must maintain all financial reports and other supporting documents
  pertinent to the award for at least 3 years following the close of the most recent
  audit.
Account Identification:
  15-0405-0-1-754.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $24,680,700; FY 08 $25,000,000; and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  None.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
