  The Appropriations Act for the Departments of Commerce, Justice and State, the    
  Judiciary, and related agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2007,    
  and for other purposes (Appropriations Act) appropriated $25 million to the       
  Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention. Block grants of up to      
  $360,000, less congressional rescissions, were to be made available to States and 
  the District of Columbia to build the following types of approaches into a state  
  strategy: 1) Statewide task forces of State and local law enforcement and         
  prosecutorial agencies to target establishments suspected of a pattern of         
  violations of State laws governing the sale and consumption of alcohol by         
  minors; 2) public advertising programs to educate establishments about statutory  
  prohibitions and sanctions; and 3) innovative programs to prevent and combat      
  underage drinking. In addition, up to $6,640,000 was to support discretionary     
  awards and training and technical assistance to support program activity at the   
  State and local levels.                                                           
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  OJP Financial Guide.                                                              
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  None.                                                                             
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention, Office of Justice          
  Programs, Department of Justice, 810 7th Street, N.W., Washington, DC 20531.      
   Telephone: (202) 307-5924. For information on the EUDL Block Grant               
  Program, please contact Scott Pestridge, Program Manger with the State            
  Relations and Assistance Division on (202) 514-5655 or via e-mail at              
  scott.pestridge@usdoj.gov. For information on EUDL Discretionary funds or         
  Training and Technical Assistance, please contact Sharie Cantelon, Program        
  Manger for the Demonstration Programs Division on (202) 616-3658 or via e-        
  mail at sharie.cantelon@usdoj.gov.                                                
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  http://www.ojjdp.ncjrs.org.                                                       
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  None.                                                                             
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  The Training and Technical Assistance Division has the responsibility for         
  administering training and technical assistance projects to support States and    
  units of local government in addressing the four program purpose areas. In        
  fiscal year 2007, a continuation award was made to Pacific Institute for Research 
  (PIRE), the national technical assistance provider.                               
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                   
  Criteria are established by the Enforcing Underage Drinking Laws Program          
  Guideline of FY 2008, as established by the Office of Juvenile Justice and        
  Delinquency Prevention.                                                           
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
16.730 REDUCTION AND PREVENTION OF CHILDREN'S                                       
EXPOSURE TO VIOLENCE                                                                
   (Safe Start)                                                                     
                                                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     
  OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS, OFFICE OF JUVENILE JUSTICE AND                        
  DELINQUENCY PREVENTION, DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE                                     
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                      
  Public Law 105-277.                                                               
OBJECTIVES:                                                                         
  To develop an initiative to understand, prevent and reduce the impact of family   
  and community violence on young children by helping communities to expand         
  existing partnerships between service providers (such as law enforcement,         
  mental health, health, early childhood education and others) to create a          
  comprehensive service delivery system. To study the efficacy of these service     
  delivery systems, replicate the most effect systems, and study the scope of the   
  problem of children's exposure to violence in the United States.                  
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                          
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                          
  Applicant selected to receive Safe Start cooperative agreements may use funds to  
  establish and enhance a broad range of local prevention, intervention and         
  treatment services for young children who have been exposed and are at risk of    
  being exposed to violence; develop effective multi-agency protocols; coordinate   
                                                                                    
  services to develop a community-wide system for responding to the needs of

                                                                                    
  children exposed or at risk of exposure to violence; study the efficacy of these

                                                                                    
  systems; and study the scope of the problem of children's exposure to violence in

                                                                                    
  the U.S.

                                                                                    
Applicant Eligibility:

  To be eligible for a Safe Start cooperative agreement, applicants must be public  
  agencies (including state agencies, local units of government, and tribal         
  governments) and/or private organizations who agree to waive any profit or fee.   
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                            
  Eligible applicants for the Safe Start Demonstration Projects are communities     
  that have formed a strong collaborative group (or shown the ability and           
  commitment to expand coordination with key partners such as courts, law           


                                                                              11-08 
  enforcement, early childhood development and domestic violence agencies, and
  mental health services) to prevent and address the impact that exposure to
  violence has on young children. Applicants for the research and evaluation
  projects are public and private agencies (private, for-profit organizations must
  agree to waive any profit for fee), organizations, institutions, or individuals that
  have demonstrated experience in evaluating broad-based community initiatives
  and whose experience includes the design of studies capable of analyzing
  process and measuring impact across multiple communities and the development
  and delivery of evaluation-based training and technical assistance.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State
  and local governments, Circular No. A-21 for educational institutions, and
  Circular No. A-122 for nonprofit organizations.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  OJJDP will determine whether applications for funding be submitted through the
  Internet using the Office of Justice Programs online Grants Management System
  (GMS) or through Grants.gov. Applicants are expected to address each concern
  or requirement in the solicitation as clearly and specifically as possible, giving
  particular attention to goal and objective statements, methodology and data
  requirements. A peer review group is established as mandated in Section
  262(d)(1)(A) of JJDP Act and applications are rated and ranked in relation to
  pre-defined selection criteria. This program is subject to the provisions of OMB
  Circular No. A-110 and the Common Rule.
Award Procedure:
  Cooperative agreements are awarded directly to selected applicants, who are
  notified of a pending award.
Deadlines:
  Published in the program announcement/solicitation for proposals.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 1 to 6 months.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Continuation grant and/or supplemental award.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Grants awarded under the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act do
  not require a cash match; except for construction projects, where the match is 50
  percent on community based facilities of 20 beds or less.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Awards may be for projects from 12 to 48 months. Specific direction about the
  length of the projects to be funded is given in the solicitation.
Reports:
  Biannual progress reports, performance measure data submission and quarterly
  financial reports are required.
Audits:
  All organizations that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in any
  fiscal year must have a single audit for that year in accordance with OMB
  Circular No. A-133, as amended, unless the audit condition on the award says
  otherwise. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency not later than 9
  months after the end of the grantee's fiscal year. In accordance with the
  provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June 27, 2003), "Audits of
  States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations, nonfederal entities
  that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have
  a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities
  that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal
  audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Grantee must keep complete records on the disposition of funds, and records
  related to the grant must be retained for 3 years after the date of the final report.
Account Identification:
  15-0404-0-1-754 and 15-0405-0-1-754.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $9,898,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  None.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  OJJDP's Safe Start Initiative, originally funded through a Congressional set aside
  of $10 M annually, promotes practice innovation, research, and evaluation to
  build knowledge in the emerging area of children's exposure to violence. The
  purpose of the initiative is to prevent and reduce the impact of violence on
  children (particularly young children) and their families. The initiative currently
  encompasses both an original Safe Start demonstration project and the Safe Start
  Promising Approaches pilot project, and includes several evaluation components
  such as case level outcomes studies, experimental and quasi-experimental
  evaluation of the pilot project, and development of a first-ever national incidence
  and prevalence study on children's exposure to violence. Both the demonstration
  and pilot programs are designed to create evidence-based practice innovation
  through expanding current partnerships among service providers in key areas
                                                                                     611
