  such as early childhood education, health, mental health, child welfare, family     
  support, substance abuse prevention/intervention, domestic violence/crisis          
  intervention, law enforcement, the courts, and legal services. These projects are   
  aimed at enhancing the accessibility, delivery, and quality of services provided    
  young children who have been exposed to violence or who are at high risk for        
  exposure. In addition, other key initiative components include capacity-building    
  work such as training and technical assistance, publications, information           
  dissemination, and public and professional awareness. Through the Safe Start        
  program, more than 15,000 children have been identified and provided with           
  appropriate services in the aftermath of their exposure to violence. Close to       
  44,000 children serving professionals have been trained to identify and respond     
  appropriately to these child victims in the Safe Start sites. In addition to the 27 
  communities directly funded to develop new practices to serve these children,       
  national efforts to increase professional knowledge and specialized training to     
  identify these children and get them critical services to ameliorate the impact of  
  trauma from this exposure to violence in their daily lives. The Safe Start          
  program supports the development of a long-range strategic plan for knowledge       
  building in the area of children's exposure to violence. This plan relies on        
  innovation and an evidence base for research, evaluation, practice, and capacity-   
  building in information dissemination and training on children's exposure to        
  violence (CEV).                                                                     
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  The Safe Start solicitation/guideline is published in the Federal Register and      
  awards are governed by the OJP Financial Guide, which is available upon             
  request. Reports and studies developed through the OJJDP National Institute are     
  available and can be secured by contacting OJJDP in Washington, DC.                 
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention, Child Protection             
  Division. Telephone: (202) 616-7323.                                                
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.usdoj.gov .                                                              
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  In fiscal year 2001, nine 5-1/2 year demonstration sites and three 2-year program   
  sites continued and completed strategic planning efforts and OJJDP later made       
  awards to an additional two demonstration sites in tribal communities. The          
  National Center for Children Exposed to Violence continues to provide training      
  and technical assistance to Safe Start communities and serves as a clearinghouse    
  for information about violent traumatization and successful approaches to           
  intervention, while further promoting public and professional awareness of the      
  effects of violence on children. In FY05 OJJDP funded the Safe Start Promising      
  Approaches Pilot Sites (SSPA) as the second phase of the Safe Start Initiative.     
  SSPA is a four-year project that will provide funds to communities to implement     
  evidence-based services for children exposed to violence and their families. The    
  National Study on the Incidence and Prevalence of Children's Exposure to            
  Violence is a five-year two-tiered study that will collect national data on the     
  children's exposure to violence to inform the field about the types of exposure     
  and the intensity, frequency and chronicity of such exposure. These numbers         
  will provide the first robust comprehensive numbers on children's exposure to       
  violence as well as providing a tool for local communities to collect their own     
  local data.                                                                         
                                                                                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

  Applications are judged according to their consistency with the policies and        
  program priorities established by the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency              
  Prevention Act. Specific criteria are published in the Federal Register as part of  
  the individual program announcement. Applications undergo a competitive peer        
                                                                                      
  review process as outlined in the OJJDP Competition and Peer Review Policy,

                                                                                      
  28 CFR Part 34.

                                                                                      
                                                                                      
16.731 TRIBAL YOUTH PROGRAM                                                           
                                                                                      
      (TYP)

                                                                                      
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS, OFFICE OF JUVENILE JUSTICE AND

                                                                                      
  DELINQUENCY PREVENTION, DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

                                                                                      
AUTHORIZATION:

                                                                                      
  Departments of Commerce, Justice, State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies

                                                                                      
  Appropriations Act, Public Law 105-277.

                                                                                      
OBJECTIVES:

                                                                                      
  To support and enhance tribal efforts for comprehensive delinquency prevention,

                                                                                      
  control, and juvenile justice system improvement for Native American youth.

                                                                                      
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:

  Project Grants (Discretionary).                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  To reduce, control, and prevent crime both by and against tribal youth; to          
  provide interventions for court-involved tribal youth; to improve tribal juvenile   


612                                                                             11-08

  justice systems; and to provide prevention programs focusing on alcohol and
  drugs.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Applications are only invited from Federally recognized tribes and Alaskan
  Native villages, however, tribes and villages may partner with others as
  applicable. If partnering with others, a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU)
  should be submitted with the application. Additionally, one tribe must be
  chosen as the primary agency for funding and reporting purposes. Only tribal
  governments and tribal organizations that have a tribal resolution sharing the
  endorsement of the tribal government are eligible to apply. A tribal resolution
  must be included with the application.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  All Federally recognized tribes and Alaskan Native villages.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Each applicant must submit a completed application, including signed
  assurances that it will comply with statutory and administrative requirements.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  OJP requires that applications for funding be submitted through OJP's Grants
  Management System (GMS). Access the system at https://grnts.ojp.usdoj.gov.
  The receipt, review, and analysis of applications will follow Office of Justice
  Programs policies and procedures for the administration of grant applications.
Award Procedure:
  A letter with copies of the grant award are sent to the applicant tribe upon
  approval by the Office of Justice Programs. One copy of the grant award must be
  signed by the authorized official and returned to the Office of Justice Programs.
Deadlines:
  Consult the Application Kit or contact the Demonstration Programs Division,
  Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention in the Office of Justice
  Programs for application deadlines. Telephone: (202) 307-5911 or 5914.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Applications will generally be approved within 45-60 days of receipt of a
  complete application.
Appeals:
  Hearing and appeal procedures will follow 28 CFR Part 18, of the Department of
  Justice Regulations.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Awards are made for 36 months.
Reports:
  Quarterly financial and semiannually progress reports are required.
Audits:
  All tribes that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in any fiscal year
  must have a single audit for that year in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-
  133, as amended. These audits are due to the Office of the Comptroller and the
  Federal Audit Clearinghouse no later than thirteen (13) months after the close of
  each fiscal year during the term of the award (for fiscal years beginning on/after
  July 1, 1998, audit report packages are due nine (9) months after the close of the
  fiscal year.
Records:
  In accordance with the requirement set forth in 28 CFR Parts 66 and 70,
  grantees must maintain all financial reports and other supporting documents
  pertinent to the award for at least 3 years following the close of the most recent
  audit.
Account Identification:
  15-0405-0-1-754.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $9,872,280; FY 08 $14,100,000; and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  None.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Tribal Youth Program: In fiscal year 2004, OJJDP awarded TYP grants totaling
  $108.7 million to 3929 American Indian and Alaskan Native tribal communities
  to develop programs to prevent and control youth violence and substance abuse.
  Awards ranged from $300,000 to $500,000 and were based on the size of the
  population the tribe serves. A broad spectrum of geographically diverse tribal
  communities responded to the TYP solicitation, an indication that OJJDP is
  achieving its goal of working with tribes and communities of various population
  sizes and geographic locations. OJJDP also noted a marked increase in the
  number of applications from Alaska and in the number of first-time applicants
  for TYP funds, another indication that the Office's outreach efforts are
  succeeding. Tribal Youth Mental Health Initiative: OJJDP is also supporting a
  mental health program, which will provide diagnostic and treatment services to
  tribal youth involved in juvenile justice systems. The four objectives of this
  program are the same as those of the Tribal Youth Program discussed above,
  except that each objective must have a specific mental health and juvenile
