  justice focus. OJJDP awarded grants under this program to nine American              
  Indian and Alaskan Native tribal communities. The grants totaled nearly $1           
  million in awards up to $300,000. Research Projects: OJJDP also supports a           
  number of research and evaluation activities through the Tribal Youth Program.       
  Based on suggestions and feedback from numerous meetings and focus groups            
  with Indian practitioners and researchers, OJJDP established three principles to     
  guide the TYP research and evaluation activities it funds. First, the research       
  should provide practical results that are useful to the parties who are the focus of 
  the research. Second, the projects should include local community members in         
  decision making and in implementing the project. Third, researchers must             
  understand and be sensitive to local customs, traditions, value, and history.        
  OJJDP's TYP research activities, which will provide empirical evidence about         
  juvenile justice and delinquency prevention policies and practice for American       
  Indian and Alaska Native youth.                                                      
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  OJP Financial Guide.                                                                 
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  None.                                                                                
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention, Office of Justice             
  Programs, 810 7th Street, N.W., Washington, DC 20531. Telephone: (202) 307-          
  5924. Contact: Laura Ansera, Program Manager, State and Tribal Assistance            
  Division. Telephone: (202) 307-5924.                                                 
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov.

RELATED PROGRAMS:

  None.                                                                                
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  The Suquamish Tribe, Washington is addressing substance abuse related

                                                                                       
  delinquency among Indian youth through a prevention program targeting young

  people ages 10 to 21. The program consists of after school activities focusing on

                                                                                       
  teaching youth leadership skills, communication skills, and traditional survival

                                                                                       
  skills. The program includes cultural activities and opportunities for youth to

                                                                                       
  become involved with the community. The goal of the activities and skills            
  building is to improve young people's ability to avoid involvement with drugs        
  and alcohol and delinquent behavior, and to strengthen youth, family, and            
  community interactions.s implementing a graduated sanctions program for youth        
  convicted of underage drinking and curfew violations. The program is                 
  administered through the joint effort of the Tribal Court and the Menominee          
  Office of Family Preservation and Support. Juveniles are referred to the program     
  by the Tribal Court. The program seeks to reduce recidivism amongst juveniles        
  that enter the program. The program includes alcohol abuse education classes to      
  teach juveniles about the danger, both physically and spiritually, that alcohol can  
  cause. The program also provides drug and alcohol abuse assessment and               
  treatment along with a community service component. Muscogee (Creek) Nation          
  proposes to establish a Juvenile Delinquency Prevention and Services Program         
  to provide prevention services to impact risk factors for delinquency and            
  improve its juvenile justice system. The Nation's proposed project will promote      
  delinquency prevention by providing intervention and education, resource, and        
  support activities to tribal youth identified as at-risk; provide advocacy to tribal 
  youth entering the state juvenile justice system; and develop and implement          
  juvenile probation services. During the three year project period, the Nation will   
  provide the following: delinquency prevention services, including                    
  individual/family needs assessment, service plan development, and                    
  individual/family home-based counseling, to at least seventy-five 12-17;             
  advocacy to at least thirty (30) youth under the age of 17 entering the State of     
  Oklahoma juvenile justice system; and probation services, including home visits,     
  community service, and case management, to between 10-15 youth under the             
  age of 17, who are identified as delinquent by the Nation's District Court. The      
  Cheyenne and Arapaho Tribes of Oklahoma intend to develop a program that             
  will reduce the high incidence of violence among the Tribal Youth that reside        
  within the eight county service area through a community-based approach. The         
  project will be developed in order to prevent the widespread use of alcohol and      
  drugs through the use of education awareness, recreational activities, and           
  tradition/cultural activities by developing on-site classes and on-site activities in
  the four target communities during the summer months for the tribal youth, ages      
  6 - 17. The other objective of this grant shall be to reduce the high incidence of   
  school truancy, the high percentage rate of dropouts from the local school system    
  through increased awareness of the importance of a formal education from the         
  local school districts. The project will work with the whole family unit by          
  providing a Mentor within the communities that will strive to increase the self-     
  esteem of the Cheyenne and Arapaho students, and to reduce the incidence of          
  child neglect, teen pregnancy, through the use of Parenting Skills Training and      
  Sex Education classes. The Southern Ute Indian Tribe in Colorado is                  
  attempting to reduce delinquency and substance abuse among at-risk and court-        
  involved Native American youth. Using FY04 Tribal Youth Program funds, the           
  Southern Ute Tribe is supporting the collaborative efforts of two tribal             
  government departments (the Southern Ute Social Services Division and the            
  Southern Ute Tribal Court) and a tribally affiliated nonprofit (Youth Services       
  Division of                                                                          


                                                                                  11-08
  SouthernUteCommunity Action Programs, Inc.) to address juvenile delinquency
  on multiple fronts. The program, which serves approximately 85 juveniles a year
  (ages 8 to 17), includes a variety of elements such as an evidence-based
  parenting program which aims to improve the communication, problem solving,
  and life skills of at-risk youth and their parents, and a Teen Court which allows
  Native American youth to participate in the sentencing portion of certain
  juvenile misdemeanor and felony cases. In addition, the Teen Court is
  developing its sentencing procedures to use sentencing circles, a process that
  engages youth in meaningful interactions with defendants and is design d t
  icrease their connection to the community. The Swinomish Indian Tribal
  Community of Washington is a relatively small rural community, gripped by
  significant drug and alcohol abuse. Recognizing the importance of stemming the
  tide of youth substance abuse and delinquent behavior, the Swinomish Tribal
  Community has established a team of tribal court and social services personnel
  to plan and implement the Swinomish Youth Wellness Court (SYWC). The
  focus is to improve the tribal juvenile justice system and provide alcohol and
  drug abuse prevention programs. The expected target population for the SYWC
  is youths between the ages of 12 and 17. There are currently 64 tribal members
  within the target age and 228 members under the age of 18. It is anticipated that
  the SYWC will provide services to 10 to 15 clients yearly when fully
  operational.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Applicants will be evaluated and rated by a modified peer review process
  according to prescribed selection criteria.
16.734 SPECIAL DATA COLLECTIONS AND STATISTICAL
STUDIES
   (Statistics)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  BUREAU OF JUSTICE STATISTICS, DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, as amended; 42 U.S.C.
  3731-3735.
OBJECTIVES:
  To produce official national statistics on crime and the administration of justice
  to be used to guide Federal, State, and local policy-making and improve the
  quality of and access to information used for decision making.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds are to be used for a variety of activities in support of BJS's statistical
  programs including: to conduct data collection and processing activities; carry
  out statistical and methodological research; provide technical assistance to
  State, local, and tribal governments to develop their capabilities to produce
  justice statistics; and provide dissemination and clearinghouse services to data
  users.
Applicant Eligibility:
  The Bureau of Justice Statistics is authorized to award grants and cooperative
  agreements to State and local governments, private nonprofit organizations,
  public nonprofit organizations, profit organizations, institutions of higher
  education, and qualified individuals. Applicants from the Territories of the
  United States and federally recognized Indian Tribal Governments are also
  eligible to participate in this program.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Eligible beneficiaries are State and local governments, private nonprofit
  organizations, public nonprofit organizations, profit organizations, institutions
  of higher education, and qualified individuals.
Credentials/Documentation:
  The applicant must furnish, along with the application for an award, details of
  the program budget composition, goals, impact, methods, evaluation plan, and
  resources of the project. Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB
  Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments and OMB Circular No. A-21
  for educational institutions.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Not applicable. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
  excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  The Office of Justice Programs (OJP)now requires that funding applications be
  submitted electronically through the OJP Grants Management System (GMS),
  which will be accessed at http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/fundopps.htm. requires that
  funding applications be submitted electronically through the OJP Grants
  Management System (GMS), which will be accessed at
  http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/fundopps.htm.
Award Procedure:
  Awards are made by OJP and must be accepted by the applicant agency or
  institution according to the special conditions of the grant or cooperative
  agreement. the applicant agency or institution according to the special
  conditions of the grant or cooperative agreement.
                                                                                   613
