Deadlines:

  Not applicable.                                                                     
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  From 2 to 3 months.                                                                 
Appeals:                                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Renewals:                                                                             
  Most awards are for periods of 12 months. Under some circumstances, a               
  subsequent award may be made to continue the project.                               
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  There are no statutory requirements for matching funds. requirements for            
  matching funds.                                                                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Project duration period is generally 12 months. Assistance is released by "direct   
  disbursement" at the request of the grantee. generally 12 months. Assistance is     
  released by "direct disbursement" at the request of the grantee.                    
Reports:                                                                              
  Reporting requirements include: Financial Status Reports containing the actual      
  expenditures for the reporting period and cumulative for the award to be            
  submitted quarterly online through GMS; and Progress Reports presenting             
  information relevant to the performance of the project to be submitted online       
  through GMS for the reporting periods June 30 and December 31. containing the       
  actual expenditures for the reporting period and cumulative for the award to be     
  submitted quarterly online through GMS; and Progress Reports presenting             
  information relevant to the performance of the project to be submitted online       
  through GMS for the reporting periods June 30 and December 31.                      
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133, (Revised, June        
  24, 1997), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit                     
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $300,000    
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit            
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $300,000 a       
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for the year,     
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133. 133, (Revised, June 24, 1997), "Audits       
  of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations," nonfederal             
  entities that expend financial assistance of $300,000 or more in Federal awards     
  will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.             
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $300,000 a year in Federal awards are     
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for the year, except as noted in Circular    
  No. A-133.                                                                          
Records:                                                                              
  In accordance with the requirements set forth in 28 CFR Parts 66 and 70, all        
  financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other records 
  pertinent to the award shall be retained by each organization for at least 3 years  
  following the closure of the most recent audit report. Parts 66 and 70, all         
  financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other records 
  pertinent to the award shall be retained by each organization for at least 3 years  
  following the closure of the most recent audit report.                              
Account Identification:                                                               
  15-0401-0-1-754.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Cooperative Agreements) Not separately identified.                                 
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  $50,000 to $600,000.                                                                
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  None.                                                                               
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Office of Justice Programs Financial Guide. Programs Financial Guide.               
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  None.

                                                                                      
Headquarters Office:

                                                                                      
  Lisa Price-Grear, Bureau of Justice Statistics, Department of Justice,

                                                                                      
  Washington, DC 20531. Telephone: (202) 616-3561. Email:

                                                                                      
  price@ojp.usjoj.gov. Use the same number for FTS. Statistics, Department of

                                                                                      
  Justice, Washington, DC 20531. Telephone: (202) 616-3561. Email:

                                                                                      
  price@ojp.usjoj.gov. Use the same number for FTS.

                                                                                      
Web Site Address:

                                                                                      
  http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov.

                                                                                      
RELATED PROGRAMS:

  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Not applicable.                                                                     
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Criteria will be outlined in the program announcements or solicitations. program    
  announcements or solicitations.                                                     
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
16.735 PROTECTING INMATES AND SAFEGUARDING                                            
COMMUNITIES DISCRETIONARY GRANT PROGRAM                                               
                                                                                      
      (Prison Rape Elimination)

                                                                                      


614                                                                             11-08

FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS, BUREAU OF JUSTICE ASSISTANCE,
  DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Prison Rape Elimination Act of 2003.
OBJECTIVES:
  To make grants to States and to assist those States in ensuring that budgetary
  circumstances (such as reduced State and local spending on prisons) do not
  compromise efforts to protect male and female inmates in adult and juvenile
  correctional facilities from prison rape as well as safeguarding the communities
  to which inmates return.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Discretionary).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  This program is divided into two parts: Protecting Inmates and Safeguarding
  Communities. Protecting Inmates focuses on providing funding to State and
  local agencies for the costs of personnel, training, technical assistance, data
  collection, and equipment necessary for the proper prevention, investigation, and
  prosecution of prison rape and the provision of victim service and treatment.
  Safeguarding Communities focuses on training and technical assistance to states
  on moderating the growth of prison populations without compromising public
  safety; developing and utilizing analyses of prison populations and risk
  assessment instruments to educate State and local governments' understanding of
  risks to the community of inmate reentry; preparing and updating maps that
  provide on a community-by-community basis a roster of returning offenders;
  promoting collaborative efforts with State and local governments to understand
  and address the risks involved when a large number of inmates reenter a
  community; and developing policies and programs that reduce spending on
  prisons by effectively reducing rates of parole and probation revocation without
  compromising public safety. Grant awards of up to $1,000,000 will be made,
  with a grant period not to exceed 24 months.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible applicants are States which are interested in: (1) protecting inmates by
  undertaking efforts to more effectively prevent, investigate, and prosecute prison
  rape incidents and providing the appropriate victim services and treatment, and
  (2) safeguarding communities through various mediums such as
  intergovernmental collaboration, assessment, training, and technical assistance.
  Applicants in varying stages of developing a prison rape initiative are eligible
  and encouraged to apply. Applicants must coordinate their proposal with other
  stakeholders in their State to ensure a collaborative response to this solicitation
  and ensure that agencies within a single jurisdiction are not competing against
  one another in the grant process. The Chief Executive of the State shall submit
  one application which designates which State agency will manage the grant.
  (Note: The Chief Executive must certify that his/her State has adopted, or will
  consider adopting, the national prison rape standards.) States are encouraged to
  make sub-awards to local jurisdictions (e.g., jails, lock-ups, detention centers)
  for such purposes consistent with this solicitation.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Eligible applicants are States.
Credentials/Documentation:
  The applicant must submit a completed Application for Federal Assistance
  (Standard Form 424), including signed assurances that it will comply with
  statutory and administrative requirements. The applicant is also required to
  submit a description that includes: (1) program goals; (2) implementation
  process; (3) timetable for implementation; and (4) documentation that includes
  organizational experience, name of grantee agency or fiscal agent, identification
  of management structure, letters of support/commitment and/or memoranda of
  understanding, and description of previous collaboration.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Applicants must coordinate their proposal with other stakeholders in their State
  to ensure a collaborative response to this solicitation and ensure that agencies
  within a single jurisdiction are not competing against one another in the grant
  process. The Chief Executive of the State shall submit one application which
  designates which state agency will manage the grant. (Note: The Chief
  Executive must certify that his/her state has adopted, or will consider adopting,
  the national prison rape standards.) States may make sub-awards to local
  jurisdictions (e.g., jails, lock-ups, detention centers) for such purposes consistent
  with this solicitation. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O.
  12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applicants must submit a completed Standard Form 424 and other information
  outlined in the Application Kit to the Office of Justice Programs, Bureau of
  Justice Assistance. The receipt, review, and analysis of applications will follow
  Office of Justice Programs policies and procedures for the administration of
  grant applications. Applications must be submitted on-line through the Office
  of Justice Programs Grant Management System at: https://grants.ojp.usdoj.gov/.
Award Procedure:
  A letter with copies of the grant award are sent to the applicant agency upon
  approval by the Office of Justice Programs. One copy of the grant award must be
