  signed by the authorized official and returned to the Office of Justice Programs.   
Deadlines:

  See the program solicitation or contact the Department of Justice, Office of        
  Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Assistance, for application deadline at (1-     
  866) 859-2687 or E-mail: AskBJA@usdoj.gov.                                          
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  None.                                                                               
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  None.                                                                               
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  24 months.                                                                          
Reports:                                                                              
  Recipients are required to submit Individual Project Reports as sub-awards are      
  made, quarterly Financial Reports, and an annual Evaluation Report.                 
Audits:                                                                               
  All organizations that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in any       
  fiscal year must have a single audit for that year in accordance with OMB           
  Circular No. A-133, as amended, unless the audit condition on the award says        
  otherwise. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency not later than 9    
  months after the end of the grantee's fiscal year. Performance Measures: To         
  assist in fulfilling the Departments responsibilities under the Government          
  Performance and Results Act (GPRA), P.L. 103-62, applicants who receive             
  funding under this solicitation must provide data that measures the results of      
  their work.                                                                         
Records:                                                                              
  In accordance with the requirement set forth in 28 CFR Parts 66 and 70,             
  grantees must maintain all financial records, supporting documents, statistical     
  records, and all other records pertinent to the award for at least 3 years following
  the close of the most recent audit.                                                 
Account Identification:                                                               
  15-0404-0-1-754.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  FY 07 $17,942,869; FY 08 $17,860,000; and FY 09 est not available.                  
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  None.                                                                               
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

                                                                                      
  None.

                                                                                      
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

                                                                                      
  Program Guidance and Application Kit, and the OJP Financial Guide.

Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Bureau of Justice Assistance, Office of Justice Programs, Department of Justice,    
  810 Seventh Street, N.W., Washington, DC 20531. Contact: Elizabeth Griffith,        
  Assoc. Deputy Director, Telephone: (202) 616-6500.                                  
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  Protecting Inmates and Safeguarding Communities:                                    
  http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/BJA/                                                       
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  None.                                                                               
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Applications will be scored based upon ability to clearly articulate strategy in the
  following areas: Budget Applicants must provide a budget that is complete,          
  allowable, and cost effective in relation to the activities to be undertaken.       
  Program Narrative Project Abstract Applicants must briefly describe in 200          
  words or less the project's purpose, goals and objectives, and summarize the        
  activities that will be implemented to achieve the goals and objectives, as well as 
  the infrastructure and collaboration necessary to manage the proposed activities.   
  Problem To Be Addressed -- Applicants must demonstrate an understanding of          
  the problem; discuss historical and current efforts for addressing the problem;     
  provide statistical evidence of the problem; illustrate what the applicant is       
  proposing to do and how the applicant intends to do it; and provide qualitative     
  and quantitative data to evaluate outcomes. Goals and Objectives Applicants         
  must identify the progressive steps to be taken in order to accomplish the goal;    
  identify how the agency's purpose area goal will enhance or expand an existing      
  strategy; and include how achievement of the enhancement of expansion will be       
  measured. Project Design/Strategy Applicants must provide a strategy that           
  discusses the program's concept, identifies the program's target population(s)      
  and target area(s), and explains how this strategy will achieve the project's goals 
  and objectives. Management and Organizational Capability.                           
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
16.736 TRANSITIONAL HOUSING ASSISTANCE FOR                                            
VICTIMS OF DOMESTIC VIOLENCE, DATING                                                  
VIOLENCE, STALKING, OR SEXUAL ASSAULT                                                 


                                                                                 11-08
   (Transitional Housing)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE ON VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN, DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Section 611 of the Prosecutorial Remedies and Other Tools to end the
  Exploitation of Children Today Act of 2003 (PROTECT Act), Public Law 108-
  21, 42 U.S.C. 13975, as amended; The Violence Against Women and
  Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005, Title VI, Section 602,
  Public Law 109-162.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide transitional housing assistance and related support services to
  minors, adults, and their dependents who are homeless, or in need of transitional
  housing or other housing assistance, as a result of fleeing a situation of domestic
  violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking; and for whom emergency
  shelter services or other crisis intervention services are unavailable or
  insufficient.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grants are available to provide transitional housing, including funding for the
  operating expenses of newly developed or existing transitional housing; short
  term housing assistance, including rental or utilities payment assistance and
  assistance with related expenses, such as payment of security deposits and other
  costs incidental to relocation to transitional housing; and support services
  designed to enable a minor, an adult, or a dependant of such minor or adult, who
  is fleeing a situation of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or
  stalking to locate and secure permanent housing and integrate into a community
  by providing that minor, adult, or dependant, with services, such as
  transportation, counseling, child care, case management, employment
  counseling, and other assistance. Participation in the support services must be
  voluntary. Receipt of the benefits of the housing assistance shall not be
  conditioned upon the participation of the youth, adults, or dependents in any or
  all of the support services offered them. Housing assistance is limited to 24
  months with a possible extension for an additional 6 months if the client has
  made a good faith effort to acquire permanent housing and has been unable to
  acquire permanent housing.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible applicants are States, Indian tribal governments, units of local
  government, and other organizations, including domestic violence and sexual
  assault victim service providers, domestic violence and sexual assault coalitions,
  other nonprofit, nongovernmental organizations, or community-based and
  culturally specific organizations, that have a documented history of effective
  work concerning domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Beneficiaries include minors, adults, and their dependants who are homeless or
  in need of transitional housing or other housing assistance, as a result of fleeing
  a situation of domestic violence; and for whom emergency shelter services or
  other crisis intervention services are unavailable or insufficient.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants must provide assurances that supportive services offered to
  participants are voluntary and that refusal to receive such services shall not be
  grounds for termination from the program or eviction from the housing.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review. Application forms furnished by the
  Federal agency, in accordance with 28 CFR, Part 66 (Common Rule), must be
  used for this program.
Application Procedure:
  Applicants must apply through the on-line grants.gov portal.. The receipt,
  review, and analysis of applications will follow Office on Violence Against
  Women policies and procedures for the administration of grant applications.
  This program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110.
Award Procedure:
  Upon approval by the Office on Violence Against Women, online notification is
  sent to the applicant agency with copies of the Grant Award. One copy of the
  Grant Award must be signed electronically by an authorized official and
  returned to the Office of Justice Programs.
Deadlines:
  Contact the Office on Violence Against Women for application deadlines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Applicants will be notified by the end of the fiscal year.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Renewals are considered on a case-by-case basis.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
                                                                                    615
