  Grants will be made for amounts up to 100 percent of the costs of the programs    
  or projects contained in the approved applications. Match is not required for     
  this grant program; however, applicants are encouraged to maximize the impact     
  of Federal grant dollars by contributing to the costs of their projects.          
  Supplemental contributions may be cash, in-kind services, or a combination of     
  both.                                                                             
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  Up to 36 months. Funds are released on an as-needed basis to the grantee.         
Reports:                                                                            
  Semi-annual progress and quarterly financial reports are required, as stipulated  
  in the effective edition of the Office of Justice Programs Financial Guide. Upon  
  completion of the grant period, grantees shall file a performance report          
  explaining the activities carried out and including an assessment of the          
  effectiveness of those activities in achieving the purposes of the program.       
Audits:                                                                             
  Nonfederal entities that expend $500,000 or more in Federal funds (from all       
  sources, including pass-through sub-awards) in the organization's fiscal year     
  shall have a single organization-wide audit conducted in accordance with the      
  provisions of OMB Circular A-133. The audit report is due to the Federal Audit    
  Clearinghouse not later than nine months after the end of the recipient's fiscal  
  year.                                                                             
Records:                                                                            
  The award recipient must keep complete records on disposition of funds.           
Account Identification:                                                             
  15-0409-0-1-754.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  FY 07 $12,898,534; FY 08 est $14,271,762; and FY 09 est $9,990,223.               
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  $150,000 to $475,000; $246,065.                                                   
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  FY 07: Applications: 215, Awards: 51; FY 08: Applications: 112, Awards: 58;       
  FY 09: Applications: 112, Awards: 41.                                             
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  The OJP Financial Guide is applicable.                                            
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  None.                                                                             
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Office on Violence Against Women, Department of Justice, 800 K Street, NW.,       
  Washington, DC 20530. Telephone: (202) 307-6026.                                  
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  http://www.ovw.usdoj.gov .                                                        
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  16.588, Violence Against Women Formula Grants; 16.587, Violence Against           
  Women Discretionary Grants for Indian Tribal Governments; 16.589, Rural           
  Domestic Violence, Dating Violence, Sexual Assault, and Stalking Assistance       
  Program; 16.590, Grants to Encourage Arrest Policies and Enforcement of           
  Protection Orders.                                                                
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  Examples include rental subsidies for victims or direct provision of housing,     
  counseling, child care, job training and readiness programs, and life skills      
  training programs.                                                                
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                   
  Not applicable.                                                                   
                                                                                    
16.737 GANG RESISTANCE EDUCATION AND TRAINING                                       
                                                                                    
      (G.R.E.A.T)                                                                   
                                                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     
  OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS, BUREAU OF JUSTICE ASSISTANCE,                         
  DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE                                                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                      
  The Consolidated Appropriations Act 2004, Public Law 108-109.                     
OBJECTIVES:                                                                         
  To help prevent youth crime, violence and gang association while developing a     
  positive relationship among law enforcement, families, and our young people, to   
  create safer communities.                                                         
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                
  Project Grants.                                                                   
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                          
  Law enforcement agencies can only use the funds provided to administer the

                                                                                    
  G.R.E.A.T. Program. This includes providing G.R.E.A.T. training for law

                                                                                    
  enforcement officers and the purchasing of materials and supplies for the

                                                                                    
  implementation and ongoing operation of the program.

                                                                                    
Applicant Eligibility:

                                                                                    
  All State, county, tribal and municipal units of general purpose government and

                                                                                    
  law enforcement agencies and other special purpose law enforcement agencies

                                                                                    
  (i.e., independent school districts) in the United States and U.S. Territories.

                                                                                    
Beneficiary Eligibility:

                                                                                    
  All State, county, tribal and municipal governments, law enforcement agencies

                                                                                    
  and schools in the United States and U.S. Territories.



616                                                                           11-08

Credentials/Documentation:
  Jurisdiction or agency head must enter into the award agreement with the Office
  of Justice Programs (OJP).
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applications are submitted by the Chief Executive Officer of a jurisdiction, or
  formal designee or law enforcement agency head, via the Internet-based Office
  of Justice Programs (OJP) Grants Management System (GMS) at
  www.ojp.usdoj.gov. On-line submission of an application represents legal
  binding acceptance of the terms of the application. For further information about
  the OJP GMS, call the OJP GMS Hotline. Telephone: 1-888-549-9901; or access
  the BJA home page at www.ojp.usdoj.gov/BJA. For general information about
  the G.R.E.A.T. Program, contact the U.S. Department of Justice. Telephone: 1-
  866-859-2687 or by email at AskGreat@usdoj.gov.
Award Procedure:
  Awards are issued by the Assistant Attorney General, Office of Justice Programs
  via the Internet-based Grants Management System (GMS). Grantees will be
  notified of the availability of the award via e-mail. The award must be accepted
  by the jurisdiction or agency head, with assurance of compliance with standard
  and special conditions of the grant award. To accept the award, grantees must
  print the award document from the GMS. The award must be accepted (signed)
  by applicant jurisdiction or agency head or his/her official designee and faxed to
  the Office of the Comptroller Control Desk.
Deadlines:
  Applications must be received on or before each fiscal year's posted deadline.
  Application period dates are always posted on the Bureau of Justice Assistance
  web page at www.ojp.usdoj.gov/BJA.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Grant awards and denials are generally made within 90 days of application
  submission.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  All applicants must apply annually for funds.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The Federal share of a grant-funded project may not exceed 90 percent of the
  total costs of the project. The 10 percent matching funds must be in the form of
  a cash match.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grant awards are issued for 12 or 18 months. Grantees may request extensions,
  not to exceed 12 additional months.
Reports:
  Applicants are required to submit a quarterly Financial Status report and semi-
  annual Categorical Assistance Progress Report.
Audits:
  Program/project reviews will be conducted by Department of Justice personnel,
  as needed, to ensure correct usage of funds and compliance with program
  requirements. Performance Measures: To assist in fulfilling the Department's
  responsibilities under the Government Performance and Results Act (GPRA),
  P.L. 103-62, applicants who receive funding under this solicitation must provide
  data that measures the results of their work.
Records:
  Agencies are required to maintain a system of standardized records for
  inspection or disclosure.
Account Identification:
  15-0405-0-1-754.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $24,680,700; FY 08 $18,800,000; and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Level I: Up to $125,000. Agencies implementing the G.R.E.A.T. middle school
  component or the G.R.E.A.T. middle school component and up to two other
  components. Level II: Up to $150,000. Agencies implementing the G.R.E.A.T.
  middle school component and the three other components or are collaborative
  efforts between at least three contiguous governmental subdivisions and/or
  municipal and county agencies (e.g., multiple precincts, county and city
  governments, school police departments and police/sheriff departments, or
  police departments and prosecutors or parole offices).
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  As of July 29, 2004, 7,027 officers from 5,485 agencies, representing 50 States,
  D.C., Puerto Rico, Canada, and military personnel from overseas bases have
  been trained to present the core curriculum in elementary and middle school
  classrooms. Almost 3.9 million children have been trained with the G.R.E.A.T.
  curriculum. For fiscal year 2002, more than 364,000 and in fiscal year 2003
  nearly 307,000 children received G.R.E.A.T. certificates for completing the
  program.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Funding guidelines and criteria are published annually in the National Federal
  Register. Information on the program can be obtained by contacting the
  G.R.E.A.T. Program Headquarters office. A cross-sectional evaluation of the
