  functionality of existing statewide automated victim notification programs.           
  American Indian Tribes and Alaska Native Tribes and/or Tribal Organizations:          
  All tribal applications must be accompanied by a current authorizing resolution       
  of the governing body of the tribal entity or other enactment of the tribal counsel   
  or comparable government body. If the grant will benefit more than one tribal         
  entity, a current authorizing resolution or other enactment of the tribal counsel or  
  comparable government body from each tribal entity must be included. If the           
  grant application is being submitted on behalf of a tribal entity, a letter or similar
  document authorizing the inclusion of the tribal entity named in the application      
  must be included.                                                                     
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                
  States, Territories and Tribal governments.                                           
Credentials/Documentation:                                                              
  Each applicant must submit a completed application that meets the requirements        
  specified in the program guidance. Costs will be determined in accordance with        
  OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments.                                
Preapplication Coordination:                                                            
  The standard application forms (SF-424) as furnished by the Federal agency in         
  accordance with 28 CFR, Part 66 must be used with this program. This program          
  is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                                           
Application Procedure:                                                                  
  Applications are submitted to BJA following the criteria set out in this              
  solicitation, as well as in the Office of Justice Programs Financial Guide.           
Award Procedure:                                                                        
  A letter and copies of the grant award are sent to the applicant agency upon          
  approval by the Assistant Attorney General. One copy of the grant award must          
  be signed by the grantee's authorized official and returned to the Office of          
  Justice Programs.                                                                     
Deadlines:                                                                              
  See the program solicitation or contact the Department of Justice, Office of          
  Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Assistance, for application deadline at (1-       
  866) 859-2687 or by E-mail: AskBJA@usdoj.gov.                                         
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                     
  The Bureau of Justice Assistance shall not finally disapprove any application (or     
  amendment to that application) without affording the applicant reasonable notice      
  of any deficiencies and providing an opportunity to correction and                    
  reconsideration.                                                                      
Appeals:

  Hearing and appeal procedures will follow 28 CFR Part 18, Code of Federal             
  Regulations.

Renewals:

                                                                                        
  Renewals are subject to annual appropriations.                                        
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                      
  Congress has mandated that Federal funds provided under the SAVIN program             
  "require a 50 percent match from State, local or private sources." For each           
  Federal dollar awarded, the managing agency must provide $0.50 towards the            
  planning, implementation, operation and/or assessment of the project from state,      
  local or private sources. Matching contributions may be a cash match, an 'in-         
  kind' match, or a combination of the two. For the purpose of this grant, cash         
  match contributions consist of cash funds contributed to the planning,                
  implementation, operation and/or assessment of the SAVIN project. For the             
  purpose of this grant, in-kind matching contributions consist of indirect             
  expenditures in support of the SAVIN project, including the cost of state/local       
  program staffing, facilities, communication infrastructure, and equipment used        
  in the planning, implementation, operation, management or assessment of the           
  program.                                                                              
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                  
  BJA will award funding to deploy and operate the program for 24 months from           
  the date of award.                                                                    
Reports:                                                                                
  Financial and Progress reports are required in accordance with the Office of          
  Justice Programs Financial Guide.                                                     
Audits:                                                                                 
  All organizations that expend financial assistance of $300,000 or more in any         
  fiscal year must have a single audit in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-           
  133, as described in Chapter 19 of the Office of Justice Programs Financial           
  Guide. Performance Measures: To assist in fulfilling the Department's                 
  responsibilities under the Government Performance and Results Act (GPRA),             
  Public Law 103-62, applicants who receive funding under this solicitation must        
  provide data that measures the results of their work.                                 
Records:                                                                                
  In accordance with the requirements set forth in 28 CFR Parts 66 and 70,              
  grantees must maintain all financial reports and other supporting documents           
  pertinent to the award for at least 3 years following the close of the most recent    
  audit.                                                                                
Account Identification:                                                                 
  15-0401-0-1-754.                                                                      
Obligations:                                                                            
  FY 07 $8,885,052; FY 08 $34,780,000; and FY 09 est not available.                     
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                              


                                                                                   11-08
  BJA will determine the number of awards based on available resources, the
  number of submissions received, criteria set forth in this grant announcement.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  BJA combined the funding available in FY 2005 ($7,393,000) and FY 2006
  ($8,965,825) for an open solicitation for applications. BJA selected 16
  statewide systems for award, with $3,372,964 carried over and made available in
  FY 2007. BJA also established the SAVIN Guidelines and Standards Advisory
  Committee and published the SAVIN Guidelines and Standards document in
  October 2006 for planning, managing and operating a successful SAVIN system.
   The SAVIN Guidelines and Standards document also includes a set of
  technology standards to ensure newly developed systems conform to national
  criminal justice information sharing standards. In FY 2007, the $8,829,239 in
  new funding combined with carry-over for a total of $12,202,203 in available
  funding. BJA issued a competitive solicitation in FY 2007 and selected 11 new
  awards and 4 supplemental awards for system enhancements. The FY 2007
  awards brought the total number of statewide SAVIN systems to 27. BJA in
  partnership with the Integrated Justice Information Systems (IJIS) Institute held
  the first annual SAVIN conference in April, 2007, and brought together two
  member teams from 42 states to share progress and highlight innovative
  strategies for system design and implementation.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Office of Justice Programs Financial Guide.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Michael Dever, Policy Advisor, 810 7th Street, N.W., 4th Floor, Washington,
  DC., 20531; Telephone (202) 616-6500 or (1-866) 859-2687 or by E-mail:
  AskBJA@usdoj.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/BJA/
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Applications are reviewed to determine compliance with applicable guideline
  requirements.
16.741 FORENSIC DNA BACKLOG REDUCTION
PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF JUSTICE, OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS,
  DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Department of Justice Appropriations Act, 2005, Public Law 108-447, 118 Stat.
  2809, 2853, 2865 (2004).
OBJECTIVES:
  The goal of NIJ's Forensic DNA Backlog Reduction Program for Fiscal Year
  (FY) 2008 is to assist eligible States and units of local government to reduce
  forensic DNA case turnaround time, increase the throughput of public DNA
  laboratories, and reduce DNA forensic casework backlogs. These improvements
  are critical to preventing future DNA backlogs and to helping the criminal
  justice system use the full potential of DNA technology.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Expenditures from Forensic DNA Backlog Reduction Program awards may
  include the following: (1) Salary and benefits of additional laboratory
  employees: Funds may be used to hire additional full-time or part-time
  laboratory employees who will be directly engaged in handling, screening,
  and/or analyzing forensic evidence that may contain DNA, or in validating new
  DNA analysis technologies. Matching funds are not required. NIJ makes no
  assurance that funds will be available for this purpose in future award
  announcements. (2) Overtime for existing laboratory staff: Funds may be used
  to pay overtime for existing laboratory employees who will be directly engaged
  in handling, screening, and analyzing forensic evidence that may contain DNA,
  or in validating new DNA analysis technologies. Any payments for overtime
  must be in accordance with the applicable provisions of the OJP Financial
  Guide, available at http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/finguide06. (3) Training: Funds
  may be used for appropriate training of DNA laboratory personnel. - Existing
  members of the DNA unit: Appropriate training may include internal or external
  training, appropriate continuing education/training opportunities, and/or
  applicable graduate-level coursework that is directly related to the applicant's
  forensic DNA laboratory operation and is for members of the DNA Unit.
  (Reasonable travel expenses directly associated with training may be paid in
  accordance with the provisions of the OJP Financial Guide.) Funds associated
  with internal or external training, appropriate continuing education/training
  opportunities, and/or applicable graduate-level coursework for existing members
  of the DNA Unit (including travel expenses) are limited to no more than 5
                                                                                  619
