  percent of the total award. Such funds will be awarded with the intended purpose     
  of aiding existing members of the DNA Unit to meet the continuing educational        
  requirements mandated in DNA Quality Assurance Standards established by the          
  Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. - New members of the DNA            
  Unit: States and units of local government that wish to use funds to train new       
  employees to handle, screen or analyze DNA evidence should submit a detailed         
  plan for training these individuals with their proposal. There is no fixed           
  percentage cap on the funds for this purpose. (4) Travel (Limited): Funds may be     
  used for travel to public or private accredited laboratories that will conduct DNA   
  analyses to review procedures and practices prior to initial sample shipment, and    
  to make one additional unannounced site visit. Funds may also be used for travel     
  associated with DNA training as described above. Travel expenses must be             
  reasonable and must comply with the applicable provisions of the OJP Financial       
  Guide. (5) Equipment: Funds may be used for upgrading, replacing, and                
  purchasing laboratory equipment, instrumentation, and computer hardware or           
  software (e.g., LIMS or expert systems) for forensic DNA analyses and data           
  management. (6) Supplies for Validation: Allowable supply expenses include the       
  purchase of laboratory supplies that can be directly attributed to the validation of 
  new DNA analysis technologies. Convicted offender-related evidence collection        
  kits may also be purchased. (7) Supplies for in-house laboratory handling,           
  screening, and analysis of forensic DNA casework samples: Funds may be used          
  for costs associated with in-house laboratory handling, screening, and analysis of   
  forensic DNA casework samples. These costs include supply expenses (to               
  include any supplies necessary for the handling, screening, and analysis of          
  backlogged forensic casework samples in addition to supplies discussed above)        
  directly attributable to forensic DNA casework. (8) Renovation: Funds may be         
  used for renovations to existing DNA laboratory facilities if it can be              
  demonstrated that the purchases will directly and specifically improve the           
  efficiency of the forensicDNA laboratory. Expenses                                   
  thatmaybeallowable include the purchase or upgrade of benches, cabinets,             
  interior dividing walls, plumbing, HVAC systems, electrical wiring, evidence         
  examination and preparation rooms, evidence storage rooms, drying rooms,             
  walk-in freezers, and extraction or amplification rooms. (9) Consultant and          
  contractor services other than sending forensic DNA casework samples to              
  accredited fee-for-service laboratories for analysis: Funds may be used to hire      
  consultants and/or temporary contract staff to handle, screen, and analyze           
  forensic evidence that may contain DNA or to validate new DNA analysis               
  technologies. Funds may also be used to hire consultants or contractors to assist    
  laboratories with the installation of LIMS or expert systems, or with the            
  implementation of DNA process-improvement measures. (10) Sending forensic            
  DNA casework samples to public or private accredited forensic DNA                    
  laboratories for analyses: Funds may be used to send samples to accredited fee-      
  for-service laboratories to conduct DNA analyses. Funds may also be used to          
  enter into agreements with accredited government-owned laboratories to conduct       
  DNA analyses, perform data review, enter eligible forensic DNA profiles into         
                                                                                       
  CODIS, and, where applicable, upload to NDIS. If an eligible applicant chooses

                                                                                       
  to send samples to an external accredited forensic DNA laboratory, the applicant

                                                                                       
  will be responsible for ensuring that applicable NDIS Data Acceptance

                                                                                       
  Standards are met for all profiles uploaded to NDIS. Administrative expenses:

                                                                                       
  Up to 3 percent of the Federal portion of a grant awarded under this program

                                                                                       
  may be used for direct and indirect administrative expenses specifically related

                                                                                       
  to grant administration and management.

                                                                                       
Applicant Eligibility:

                                                                                       
  Eligible applicants are State and units of local government with existing crime

                                                                                       
  laboratories conducting DNA analysis that are either: (1) Accredited by a

                                                                                       
  nonprofit professional association actively involved in forensic science that is

                                                                                       
  nationally recognized within the forensic science community such as the

                                                                                       
  American Society of Crime Laboratory Directors/Laboratory Accreditation

                                                                                       
  Board (ASCLD/LAB) or the Forensic Quality Services (FQS), etc., or (2)

                                                                                       
  Undergo external audits, not less than once every 2 years, that demonstrate

                                                                                       
  compliance with DNA Quality Assurance Standards established by the Director

                                                                                       
  of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

                                                                                       
Beneficiary Eligibility:

                                                                                       
  Eligible applicants are State and units of local government with existing crime

                                                                                       
  laboratories conducting DNA analysis that are either: (1) Accredited by a

                                                                                       
  nonprofit professional association actively involved in forensic science that is     
  nationally recognized within the forensic science community such as the              
  American Society of Crime Laboratory Directors/Laboratory Accreditation              
  Board (ASCLD/LAB) or the Forensic Quality Services (FQS), etc., or (2)               
  Undergo external audits, not less than once every 2 years, that demonstrate          
  compliance with DNA Quality Assurance Standards established by the Director          
  of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.                                              
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  The applicant must furnish a copy of their current accreditation certificate.        
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  Potential applicants are encouraged to request the program announcement for          
  additional information about eligibility requirements, the research priorities of    
  the Institute, and application and selection procedures. The standard application    
  form as furnished by the Federal agency, in accordance with 28 CFR, Part 66          
  (Common Rule), must be used for this program. Applicants must contact their

620                                                                              11-08

  State Point of Contact (SPOC) to determine if the program has been selected for
  review by the State. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372,
  Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult
  the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or her State
  for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying
  for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review. The date that the
  application was sent to the SPOC or the reason such submission is not required
  must be included in the application. A copy of the application must also be
  submitted to the State office that administers the Edward Byrne Memorial State
  and Local Law Enforcement Assistance Formula Grant Program.
Application Procedure:
  Detailed information is provided in a program solicitation which is obtained by
  sending a self-addressed mailing label to NCJRS, Box 6000, Rockville, MD
  20849-6000; calling toll free to request a copy at (800) 851-3420; or accessing
  the web site at www.ojp.usdoj.gov/nij under Funding Opportunities. This
  program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No.A-110 or the Common
  Rule where applicable. The Office of Justice Programs (OJP) requires that
  funding applications be submitted electronically through the OJP Grants
  Management System (GMS), which will be accessed at
  http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/fundopps.htm. On-line submission of an application
  represents legal binding acceptance of the terms of the application. For further
  information about GMS, call the OJP GMS Hotline at (1-888) 549-9901.
Award Procedure:
  All applications will be reviewed by the Program Office. All final decisions will
  be made by the NIJ Director.
Deadlines:
  There is normally one deadline each year, usually in the Spring. The deadline
  varies based on when program appropriations is passed into law. Throughout
  the fiscal year, NIJ releases multiple announcements for research and technology
  development funding. Program deadline will be included in the announcements
  on FedGrants at www.fedgrants.gov, on NIJ's website at
  www.ojp.usdoj.gov/nij/funding.htm, and on the Office of Justice Programs
  website at www.ojp.usdoj.gov/fundopps.htm .
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 90 days from application deadline.
Appeals:
  Hearing by the NIJ Director.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Grant funds shall not be used to pay salaries and/or benefits of existing State or
  local personnel. Applicants, however, may include the cost of hiring new
  laboratory personnel directly associated with the project.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Awards under this program are issued for a period of 18 months.
Reports:
  Fiscal report consisting of quarterly expenditures and budget expenditure
  reports; final financial report giving costs and expenditures of the complete
  project; program reports consisting of quarterly performance metrics reports, bi-
  annual progress reports; and a final report including a summary of program
  accomplishments. Other reports may be requested.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No.A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofits
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Records and accounts concerning the expenditure of Institute and grantee or
  appointee-contributed funds shall be maintained during the grant period and
  retained for 3 years thereafter.
Account Identification:
  15-0401-0-1-754.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $44,249,591; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  In amounts consistent with the applicant's proposed project and the Institute's
  plans, priorities and levels of financing.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  None.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Information about the Forensic DNA Backlog Reduction Program solicitation
  may be obtained by calling NCJRS at (800) 851-3420 or accessing the web site
  at www.ojp.usdoj.gov/nij under Funding Opportunities.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  National Institute of Justice, Department of Justice, 810 7th Street, N.W.,
