  Washington, DC 20531. Telephone: (202) 307-2942. FTS number is (202)                
  307-3942. For assistance with the requirements of this solicitation, contact        
  Senior Program Manager: Mark Nelson; Telephone: (202) 616-1960 or                   
  Mark.S.Nelson@usdoj.gov, or Program Manager: Minh Nguyen; Telephone:                
  (202) 305-2664 or Minh.Nguyen@usdoj.gov. This application must be                   
  submitted through OJP's online Grants Management System (GMS). For                  
  technical assistance with submitting the application, call the Grants               
  Management System Customer Support Hotline at (1-888) 514-9901.                     
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.usdoj.gov/nij.                                                           
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  None.                                                                               
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  All eligible State and units of local government with existing crime laboratories   
  conducting DNA analysis that are accredited by a nonprofit professional             
  association actively involved in forensic science that is nationally recognized     
  within the forensic science community such as the American Society of Crime         
  Laboratory Directors/Laboratory Accreditation Board (ASCLD/LAB) or the              
  Forensic Quality Services (FQS), etc., and unergo external audits, not less than    
  once every 2 years, that demonstrate compliance with DNA Quality Assurance          
  Standards established by the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.       
                                                                                      
16.742 PAUL COVERDELL FORENSIC SCIENCES                                               
                                                                                      
IMPROVEMENT GRANT PROGRAM

                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF JUSTICE, OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS,                          
  DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE                                                               
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Paul Coverdell National Forensic Sciences Improvement Act of 2000, Public           
  Law 106-561; as amended by Public Law 107-273; as amended by the Justice            
  for All Act of 2004, Public Law 108-405.                                            
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To improve the quality and timeliness of forensic science and medical examiner      
  services and/or to eliminate backlogs in the analysis of forensic evidence,         
  including controlled substances, firearms examination, forensic pathology, latent   
  prints, questioned documents, toxicology, and trace evidence for criminal justice   
  purposes.                                                                           
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Formula Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Grants may be used to improve the quality and timeliness of forensic science and    
  medical examiner services, including services provided by laboratories operated     
  by States and those operated by units of local government. Among other              
  purposes, funds may be used to eliminate backlogs in the analysis of general        
  forensic evidence, or to train and employ forensic laboratory personnel to          
  eliminate such backlogs. State Administering Agencies and units of local            
  government may apply directly to NIJ for funding. Funds may be used for             
  personnel, computerization, laboratory equipment, supplies, accreditation,          
  education, training, and certification, facilities' a formula, found in the funding 
  announcement, determines the limit to the amount of funding that can be used        
  for facilities, and administration expenses (not to exceed 10 percent). Funds       
  may not be used for expenses other than those listed above.                         
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Coverdell State Administering Agencies and units of local government may            
  apply directly to NIJ for funding. All applicants for Coverdell grants - whether    
  States or units of local government - must have developed a plan for forensic       
  science laboratories that is designed to improve the quality and timeliness of      
  forensic science or medical examiner services, and must specifically describe the   
  manner in which grant funds will be used to carry out that plan. States are         
  expected to consider the needs of laboratories operated by units of local           
  government as well as those operated by the State. Any forensic laboratory,         
  forensic laboratory system, medical examiner's office, or coroner's office that     
  will receive any portion of a Coverdell grant must use generally accepted           
  laboratory practices and procedures as established by accrediting organizations     
  or appropriate certifying bodies. Each applicant for a Coverdell grant must be      
  able to certify with respect to any forensic laboratory system, medical examiner's  
  office, coroner's office, law enforcement storage facility, or medical facility that
  will receive any portion of the grant that a government entity exists and an        
  appropriate process is in place to conduct independent external investigations      
  into allegations of serious negligence or misconduct by employees or contractors    
  substantially affecting the integrity of forensic results.                          
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  In accordance with the Paul Coverdell National Forensic Sciences Improvement        
  Act of 2000, Public Law 106-561, amended by Public Law 107-273, and the             
  amendments in the Justice for All Act, Public Law 108-405, eligible applicants      
  must be State or local (i.e., county and municipal) governments or combinations     
  thereof. The purpose of this solicitation is to request applications for grants from
                                                                                 11-08
  State and local (i.e., county and municipal) governments to improve the quality
  and timeliness of forensic science and medical examiner services and/or to
  eliminate backlogs in the analysis of forensic evidence, including controlled
  substances, firearms examination, forensic pathology, latent prints, questioned
  documents, toxicology, and trace evidence for criminal justice purposes in State
  and local forensic laboratories.
Credentials/Documentation:
  The applicant must furnish the following along with the application for a grant: a
  certification that states there exists a plan for forensic science laboratories that is
  designed to improve the quality and timeliness of forensic science or medical
  examiner services; a certification that states each forensic laboratory, forensic
  laboratory system, medical examiner's office, or coroner's office that will receive
  any portion of a Coverdell grant uses generally accepted laboratory practices and
  procedures as established by accrediting organizations or appropriate certifying
  bodies; a certification that states that a government entity exists and an
  appropriate process is in place to conduct independent external investigations
  into allegations of serious negligence or misconduct by employees or contractors
  substantially affecting the integrity of forensic results, and resumes of key
  personnel. Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-
  87 for State and local governments.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Potential applicants are encouraged to request the program announcement for
  additional information about eligibility requirements and application and
  selection procedures. The standard application form as furnished by the Federal
  agency, in accordance with 28 CFR Part 66 (Common Rule), must be used for
  this program. Applicants must contact their State Administering Agency to
  determine if the program has been selected for review by the State. This program
  is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, Intergovernmental Review of Federal
  Programs. An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the
  single point of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the
  State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected
  the program for review. The date that the application was sent to the State
  Administering Agency or the reason such submission is not required must be
  included in the application. A. Base Funds for States: Seventy-five percent of
  the funds available for Coverdell grants will be allocated among eligible States
  based on population (State base funds). To be eligible, a State must satisfy the
  specific application requirements outlined in this announcement and all other
  general requirements for NIJ and OJP grants. Applications for State base
  funding must be submitted by the Coverdell State Administering Agency listed
  on the Office of Justice Programs web site at:
  http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/state.htm. B. Competitive Funds for States and Units
  of Local Government: Twenty-five percent of the available funds will be
  allocated among States and units of local government through a competitive
  process. Units of local government that provide forensic science or medical
  examiner services (whether through a forensic science laboratory, medical
  examiner's office, or coroner's office) may apply directly to NIJ for competitive
  funds. Coverdell State Administering Agencies may apply for competitive funds
  for forensic sciences improvements above and beyond those it can accomplish
  with its base funds. State applications for competitive funding will only be
  accepted from Coverdell State Administering Agencies. Other State agencies or
  departments who wish to apply for competitive funds must coordinate with their
  respective State Administering Agency.
Application Procedure:
  Detailed information is provided in a program solicitation which is obtained by
  sending a self-addressed mailing label to NCJRS, Box 6000, Rockville, MD
  20849-6000; calling toll-free to request a copy at (800) 851-3420; or accessing
  the web site at www.ojp.usdoj.gov/nij under Funding Opportunities. This
  program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110 or the
  Common Rule where applicable. The Office of Justice Programs (OJP) requires
  that funding applications be submitted electronically through the OJP Grants
  Management System (GMS), which will be accessed at
  http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/fundopps.htm. On-line submission of an application
  represents legal binding acceptance of the terms of the application. For further
  information about GMS, call the OJP GMS Hotline at 1 (888) 549-9901.
Award Procedure:
  Base applications are reviewed by the program office. The NIJ Director makes
  the final award decision. Competitive applications will be reviewed by a peer
  review panel selected for their operational expertise as well as their knowledge in
  the substantive areas covered by this program. The NIJ Director makes the final
  award decision.
Deadlines:
  There is normally one deadline each year, usually in the Spring. The deadline
  varies based on when program appropriations is passed into law. Program
  deadline will be included in the announcements on FedGrants at
  www.fedgrants.gov, on NIJ's website at www.ojp.usdoj.gov/nij/funding.htm, and
  on the Office of Justice Programs website at www.ojp.usdoj.gov/fundopps.htm.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  It generally takes 3 to 6 months after the closing date of the announcement to
  receive Coverdell funding.
Appeals:
                                                                                       621
