  Hearing by the NIJ Director.                                                        
Renewals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Formula and Matching Requirements:

  Seventy-five percent of the funds available for Coverdell grants will be allocated

  among eligible States based on population. Twenty-five percent of the available

                                                                                      
  funds will be allocated among States and units of local government through a        
  competitive process. There are no matching requirements.

Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  In general, NIJ will limit grants under the Coverdell program to a maximum of       
  12 months.                                                                          
Reports:                                                                              
  Each State and unit of local government that receives funding under the             
  Coverdell program must submit semiannual progress reports and quarterly             
  financial status reports for the life of the award. Fiscal reports consist of       
  quarterly expenditures and budget expenditure reports; the final financial report   
  gives costs and expenditures of the complete project. In addition, Coverdell        
  grantees must submit a final report that must include a summary and assessment      
  of the program carried out with the fiscal year grant funds and must cite the       
  specific improvements in the quality and/or timeliness of forensic science and      
  medical examiner services (including any reduction in forensic analysis backlog)    
  that occurred as a direct result of the grant award. Other reports may be           
  requested.                                                                          
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June          
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"      
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in         
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that    
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal          
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted    
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                              
Records:                                                                              
  Records and accounts concerning the expenditure of Institute and grantee or         
  appointee-contributed funds shall be maintained during the grant period and         
  retained for 3 years thereafter. Each State or local unit of government within the  
  State that receives funding under this program must maintain adequate records       
  relating to the receipt and use of the total grant amount. The Attorney General     
  and the Comptroller General of the United States (or designees thereof) will have   
  access to these records for audit and examination purposes.                         
Account Identification:                                                               
  15-0404-0-1-754.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  FY 07 $18,263,718; FY 08 $18,800,000; and FY 09 est. not available.                 
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  In amounts consistent with the applicant's proposed project and the Institute's     
  plans, priorities and levels of financing.                                          
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  For fiscal years (2006 and 2007), the Paul Coverdell Forensic Sciences              
  Improvement Grant program provided assistance to State and local crime              
  laboratories and medical examiner/coroner's offices to improve the quality and      
  timeliness of forensic science and medical examiner services.                       
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Information about the Coverdell grant announcement may be obtained by calling       
  NCJRS at (800) 851-3420 or accessing the web site at www.ojp.usdoj.gov/nij          
  under Funding Opportunities.                                                        
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  National Institute of Justice, Department of Justice, 810 7th Street, N.W.,         
  Washington, DC 20531. Telephone: (202) 307-2942. FTS number is (202) 307-           
  2942.                                                                               
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.usdoj.gov/nij.                                                           
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Arizona Criminal Justice Commission $207,068 (base), State of Connecticut -         
  $79,312 (base), Georgia Criminal Justice Coordinating Council - $275,550            
  (base), Maryland Governor's Office of Crime Control and Prevention -                
  $125,430, North Dakota - $95,318 (formula), State of Texas - $503,611 (base),       
  Erie County, New York - $54,510, Town of Fishers Police Department, Indiana -       
  $13,994, City of Quincy Massachusetts - $78,783, County of Allegheny                
  Pennsylvania - $70,000. To obtain information about additional projects             
  funding through this program, potential applicants may contact the National         
  Institute of Justice by addressing correspondence to National Institute of Justice, 
  Office of Science and Technology, 810 7th Street, N.W., Washington, DC,             
  20531; Telephone: (202) 307-2942.                                                   
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Base applications are reviewed by the program office. The NIJ Director makes        
  the final award decision. Competitive applications will be reviewed by a peer       


622                                                                             11-08

  review panel selected for their operational expertise as well as their knowledge in
  the substantive areas covered by this solicitation. The NIJ Director makes the
  final award decision.
16.744 ANTI-GANG INITIATIVE
   (Anti-Gang Initiative)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS, BUREAU OF JUSTICE ASSISTANCE,
  DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Law 110-5, embedded Sections 101-104; Public Law 109-108, 119 Stat.
  2290, 2302.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide support for new and expanded anti-gang enforcement and prevention
  activities under the Project Safe Neighborhood Initiative (PSN).
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds may be used to support anti-gang enforcement and prevention activities as
  specified in the authorization legislation. Generally, funds may be used to
  provide additional personnel and equipment for widespread prevention,
  apprehension, prosecution and adjudication of persons who violate Federal,
  State, and local laws relating to violent criminal gang activity. Federal funds
  must be used to supplement existing funds for program activities and cannot
  replace, or supplant, nonfederal funds that have been appropriated for the same
  purpose. For additional unallowable costs, please refer to the OJP, Office of the
  Comptroller's Financial Guide.
Applicant Eligibility:
  The PSN or gang task force must identify the fiscal agent for the district, which
  then must be certified by the U.S. Attorney's Office. Eligible fiscal agent
  applicants include states, units of local government, educational institutions,
  faith-based and other community organizations, and private nonprofit
  organizations. Sub-recipient eligibility is determined by the PSN Task Force
  Selection Subcommittee in each of the 94 USA Districts. Each District's chosen
  fiscal agent submits the application to BJA.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  State and units of local governments.
Credentials/Documentation:
  The applicant must submit a completed Application for Federal Assistance
  (Standard Form 424), including signed assurances that it will comply with
  statutory and administrative requirements. By certifying on-line, the authorizing
  signing official is also assuring that all federal certifications and assurances are
  being met. The certification and assurance forms (Assurances, OJP Form 4000/3
  and Certifications Regarding Lobbying; Debarment, Suspension and Other
  Responsibility Matters; and Drug-Free Workplace Requirements, OJP Form
  4061/6) are provided on-line to allow applicants to review and accept them
  electronically.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Interested parties should contact their local United States Attorney's Office. This
  program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372 "Intergovernmental Review
  of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance. The
  standard application forms (SF-424) as furnished by the Federal agency in
  accordance with 28 CFR Part 66 (Common Rule), must be used with this
  program.
Application Procedure:
  Applications are submitted to BJA following the criteria set out in the Anti-Gang
  Initiative Program Guidance.
Award Procedure:
  None.
Deadlines:
  See the program solicitation or contact the Department of Justice, Office of
  Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Assistance, at 1 (866) 859-2687 or by E-
  mail: at AskBJA@usdoj.gov. Website:
  http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/BJA/grant/psn.html.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Not available.
Appeals:
  See 28 CFR Part 18.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  There is no match requirement for this grant program. Each USAO District will
  receive a formula-based award based on the district population and crime
  problem, including gang crime. Applicants must submit a program narrative,
  budget detail worksheet, and a U.S. Attorney certification letter identifying the
  fiscal agent. USAO Districts may use up to 10 percent of their approved award
