  for costs associated with administering the grant funds.                          
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  Each award will be for a period of up to 36 months.                               
Reports:                                                                            
  Grant recipients will be required to submit online quarterly financial (Standard  
  Form 269A) reports and semi-annual progress reports, as required by the OJP       
  financial guide.                                                                  
Audits:                                                                             
  Recipients who expend $500,000 or more of Federal funds during their fiscal       
  year are required to submit an organization-wide financial and compliance audit   
  report in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-133, as amended, and as stated       
  in the on-line payment process. Receipt of SCAAP payments is considered in        
  establishing the requirement for an audit under the Single Audit Act. In          
  accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June 27,       
  2003), "Audits of States, Local governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"        
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in       
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that  
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal        
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted  
  in Circular No. A-133. Performance Measures: To assist in fulfilling the          
  Departments responsibilities under the Government Performance and Results         
  Act (GPRA), Public Law 103-62, applicants who receive funding under this          
  solicitation must provide data that measures the results of their work.           
Records:                                                                            
  Grantee must keep complete records on the disposition of funds, and adhere to     
  the Federal Retention Requirements Act.                                           
Account Identification:                                                             
  15-0404-0-1-754.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  FY 07 $45,000,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est. not available.         
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  Each Federal judicial district will be eligible to receive allocation based on a  
  formula that consists of the districts population and crime statistics, including 
  gang crime. FY 2007 Anti-Gang Initiative funding totaled $49 million. Funding     
  amounts ranged from $54,987 to $1,691,216.                                        
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  Please see: http://www.psn.gov/press/News.aspx?nt=p.                              
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  The OJP Financial Guide and H.R. 2862.                                            
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  Los Angeles, Tampa, Cleveland, Dallas/Ft. Worth, Milwaukee, and the "222          
  Corridor" Easton to Lancaster, Pennsylvania, near Philadelphia, PA.               
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Office of Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Assistance, Department of Justice,  
  Washington DC 20531. Contact: Jonathan Faley, Division Chief. Telephone:          
  (202) 514-2350 or by E-mail: AskBJA@usdoj.gov.                                    
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  Bureau of Justice Assistance: www.ojp.usdoj.gov/bja, Project Safe                 
  Neighborhood: http://www.psn.gov/.                                                
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  16.609, Community Prosecution and Project Safe Neighborhoods.                     
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  Multi-Jurisdictional Drug/Gang Enforcement Task Forces, Community Policing,       
  Training and Technical Assistance Projects.                                       
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                   
  Applications are reviewed to determine compliance with applicable guideline       
  requirements.                                                                     
                                                                                    
16.745 CRIMINAL AND JUVENILE JUSTICE AND                                            
                                                                                    
MENTAL HEALTH COLLABORATION PROGRAM                                                 
  (Criminal & Juvenile Justice And Mental Health Collaboration                      
  Program)                                                                          
                                                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     
  BUREAU OF JUSTICE ASSISTANCE, OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS,                         
  DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE                                                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                      
  Public Law 108-414, Mentally Ill Offender Treatment and Crime Reduction Act.      
OBJECTIVES:                                                                         
  To increase public safety by facilitating collaboration among the criminal        
  justice, juvenile justice, mental health treatment, and substance abuse systems to
  increase access to treatment.                                                     
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                
  Project Grants.                                                                   
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                          
  Funding for planning grants can be used to support efforts to develop a           
  comprehensive plan which targets preliminarily qualified offenders to promote     
  public safety and public health. Implementation funding can be used to support    
  the following activities: Mental Health Courts and Diversion/Alternative          


                                                                               11-08
  Prosecution and Sentencing Programs - Funds may be used to create or expand
  existing mental health courts or other court-based programs, or diversion and
  alternative prosecution and sentencing programs (including crisis intervention
  teams and treatment accountability services). Training - Funds may be used to
  create or expand programs such as crisis intervention training, which offer
  specialized training to criminal justice system personnel to identify and respond
  to the unique needs of people with mental illness or to mental health system
  personnel to respond to the treatment needs of mentally ill offenders. Service
  Delivery - Funds may be used to create or expand programs that promote public
  safety by providing services, including housing. In-Jail and Transitional
  Services - Funds may be used to create or expand mental health and support
  programs and services that promote public safety. There are limitations on
  funding certain activities, including construction funds. See also the OJP
  financial guide for other funding prohibitions.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Applicants are limited to States, units of local government, Indian tribes, and
  tribal organizations. BJA will only accept joint applications; each application
  must include a mental health agency as well as a unit of government with
  responsibility for criminal justice activities.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  General Public.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  All applications must be submitted electronically via the Office of Justice
  Programs' Grants Management System (GMS)at: https://grants.ojp.usdoj.gov/.
  Applications or supplemental materials received by facsimile or postal mail will
  not be accepted.
Award Procedure:
  All applications will be reviewed the program office. The Assistant Attorney
  General, Office of Justice Programs, US Department of Justice makes the final
  award decision.
Deadlines:
  There is normally one deadline each year, usually in the Spring. The deadline
  varies based on when program appropriations is passed into law. The Program
  deadline will be included in the announcements on FedGrants at
  www.fedgrants.gov, on NIJ's website at
  http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/BJA/funding/current-opp.html, and on the Office of
  Justice Programs website at http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/funding/.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 90 days from application deadline.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  A minimum 20 percent match is required; federal funding for this project may
  not exceed 80 percent of the total project costs. Match can include cash and in-
  kind sources.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  None.
Reports:
  Fiscal report consisting of quarterly expenditures and budget expenditure
  reports; final financial report giving costs and expenditures of the complete
  project; program reports consisting of quarterly performance metrics reports, bi-
  annual progress reports; and a final report including a summary of program
  accomplishments. Other reports may be requested.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofits
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133. Performance Measures: To assist in
  fulfilling the Department's responsibilities under the Government Performance
  and Results Act (GPRA), P.L. 103-62, applicants who receive funding under this
  solicitation must provide data that measures the results of their work.
Records:
  Records and accounts concerning the expenditure of grants funds and grantee
  contributed funds shall be maintained during the grant period and retained for 3
  years thereafter.
Account Identification:
  15-0404-0-1-754.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $4,936,140; FY 08 $6,500,000; and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  In amounts consistent with the applicant's proposed project and the BJA's plans,
                                                                                  623
