  priorities and levels of financing.                                                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                  
  None. New program.                                                                      
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                  
  Information about the Criminal and Juvenile Justice and Mental Health                   
  Collaboration Program solicitation may be obtained by calling NCJRS at (800)            
  851-3420 or accessing the web site at                                                   
  http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/BJA/funding/index.html.                                        
Regional or Local Office:                                                                 
  None.                                                                                   
Headquarters Office:                                                                      
  Bureau of Justice Assistance, Office of Justice Programs, 810 Seventh St, NW.,          
  Washington, DC 20531. Telephone: (202) 616-6500 or by email at                          
  AskBJA@usdoj.gov.                                                                       
Web Site Address:                                                                         
  http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/BJA.                                                           
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                         
  None.                                                                                   
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                              
  None.                                                                                   
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                         
  Selection criteria are defined specifically in the solicitation, including stating the  
  need for the program, the strategy proposed, management plan and capacity to            
  implement, program assessment, evaluation and sustainment and the budget.               
                                                                                          
16.746 CAPITAL CASE LITIGATION                                                            
                                                                                          
      (CCL)                                                                               
                                                                                          
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                           
  OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS, BUREAU OF JUSTICE ASSISTANCE,                               
  DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE                                                                   
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                            
  42 U.S.C. Section 14163; 42 U.S.C. Section 14163a.                                      
OBJECTIVES:                                                                               
  To provide attorneys and judges who litigate death penalty cases, with                  
  specialized legal training and technical assistance on death penalty issues in an       
  effort to improve the quality of representation, produce reliable jury verdicts and     
  minimize post conviction litigation.                                                    
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                      
  Project Grants.                                                                         
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                                
  Priority will be given to States that currently enforce their death penalty statutes.   
  Funding under this initiative cannot be used for training on the appellate              
  process. Funds may not be used to supplant State and local funds.                       
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                    
  Limited to State-based agencies or organizations and units of local government          
  that serve defense counsel, prosecutors and judges; and are located in States that      
  currently enforce their death penalty statutes. American Indian Tribes and              
  Alaska Native Tribes and/or Tribal Organizations: All tribal applications must          
  be accompanied by a current authorizing resolution of the governing body of the         
  tribal entity or other enactment of the tribal counsel or comparable government         
  body. If the grant will benefit more than one tribal entity, a current authorizing      
  resolution or other enactment of the tribal counsel or comparable government            
  body from each tribal entity must be included. If the grant application is being        
  submitted on behalf of a tribal entity, a letter or similar document authorizing        
  the inclusion of the tribal entity named in the application must be included.           
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                  
  Defense counsel, prosecutors and judges in the States, the District of Columbia,        
  the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, America Samoa, Guam,               
  and the Northern Mariana Islands that currently enforce their death penalty             
  statutes.                                                                               
Credentials/Documentation:                                                                
  The applicant must submit a completed Application for Federal Assistance                
  (Standard Form 424), including signed assurances that it will comply with               
  statutory and administrative requirements. By certifying on-line, the authorizing       
  signing official is also assuring that all Federal certifications and assurances are    
  being met. The certification and assurance forms (Assurances, OJP Form 4000/3           
  and Certifications Regarding Lobbying; Debarment, Suspension and Other                  
  Responsibility Matters; and Drug-Free Workplace Requirements, OJP Form                  
  4061/6) are provided on-line to allow applicants to review and accept them              
  electronically.                                                                         
Preapplication Coordination:                                                              
  No formal preapplication coordination is required. While informal                       
  preapplication coordination is not required, it is encouraged that applicants           
  coordinate with any facilities for which they have responsibility to detain or          
  incarcerate undocumented criminal aliens. This program is excluded from                 
  coverage under E.O. 12372 "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs."               
Application Procedure:                                                                    
  Applications must be submitted through the online, Internet-based Grants                


624                                                                                 11-08

  Management System (GMS) at: https://grants.ojp.usdoj.gov/. Faxed or mailed
  applications or supplemental materials will not be accepted.
Award Procedure:
  All applications will be peer reviewed. The BJA Director will then make award
  recommendations to OJP's Assistant Attorney General, who will make a final
  determination.
Deadlines:
  See the program solicitation or contact the Department of Justice, Office of
  Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Assistance, at (1-866) 859-2687 or by E-
  mail: AskBJA@usdoj.gov. Website: http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/BJA/index.html.
  Consult the Application Kit or contact the Bureau of Justice Assistance in the
  Office of Justice Programs for application deadline.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Applications will generally be approved or denied within 60 days of receipt of a
  complete application.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Subject to congressional appropriation.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Awards are made within 90 days of application end date.
Reports:
  Recipients are required to submit quarterly Financial Reports, and semi-annual
  Progress Reports. Successful applicants will be required to work with
  designated national organizations to implement the training at the state level and
  keep the training current with changing laws.
Audits:
  Recipients who expend $500,000 or more of Federal funds during their fiscal
  year are required to submit an organization-wide financial and compliance audit
  report in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-133, as amended, and as stated
  in the on-line payment process. Receipt of SCAAP payments is considered in
  establishing the requirement for an audit under the Single Audit Act. In
  accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June 27,
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133. Performance Measures: To assist in fulfilling the
  Departments responsibilities under the Government Performance and Results
  Act (GPRA), P.L. 103-62, applicants who receive funding under this solicitation
  must provide data that measures the results of their work.
Records:
  Records In accordance with the requirement set forth in 28 CFR Parts 66 and 70,
  grantees must maintain all financial records, supporting documents, statistical
  records, and all other records pertinent to the award for at least 3 years following
  the close of the most recent audit.
Account Identification:
  15-0404-0-1-754.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $987,228; FY 08 $2,500,000; and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Applicant can request up to $50,000.00. The maximum project period is 18
  months.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In preparation for this initiative, the National Judicial College (NJC), National
  District Attorneys Association (NDAA), the National Legal Aid and Defenders
  Association (NLADA) respectively, outlined a strategy defining their
  constituents' (judges, prosecutors, and defense counsel) need for training and
  technical assistance. Each group conducted gap analysis, compiled current
  resources and developed a training curriculum that was piloted at a national
  level. The developed curriculum has been adapted to include relevant state
  statutes that will be delivered by State agencies. NDAA conducted pilot
  trainings in AR and FL; NJC conducted pilot trainings in AR, VA, NC, TX and
  PA; and NLADA conducted pilot trainings in CA, TX, SC, PA, and IL. The
  defenders had approximately 34-36 participants per training, the judges had
  approximately 30 participants per training, and the prosecutors trained 53
  students in Florida and 39 in Arkansas.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Program Application Kit and Questions and Answers posted regularly on the
  OJP website at: http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/BJA/. OJP Financial Guide.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Kim Norris, JD., Senior Policy Advisor, Bureau of Justice Assistance, State
  Policy Office, 810 Seventh Street N.W., Washington, DC 20531. Telephone:
  (202)616-6500 or (1-866) 859-2687. E-mail: AskBJA@usdoj.gov.
Web Site Address:
