  http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/BJA/grant/.                                               
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  None.                                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  None.                                                                              
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  See solicitation for selection criteria and required elements.                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
16.747 CRIME VICTIMS' RIGHTS ACT

                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS, OFFICE FOR VICTIMS OF CRIME,                           
  DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE                                                              
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  42 U.S.C. 10603d(d)(4).                                                            
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  The purpose of the FY 2007 project is to enhance and establish crime victim        
  legal clinics to ensure enforcement of victims' rights. It will also place a social
  worker/community liaison within each clinic for outreach to victims and other      
  participants in the criminal justice system. The clinics will establish and        
  implement education strategies for participants in the criminal justice system.    
  The agreements will support the enforcement of victims' rights at the federal,     
  state and tribal level. The specific objectives for FY 2008 funding have not been  
  established.                                                                       
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  With the funding provided in FY 07, grantees will establish victim legal clinics   
  that provide direct legal representation to victims of crime in criminal court, as 
  well as support services to those victims. Organizations and agencies can apply    
  for funding to establish one legal clinic or to provide subgrants to multiple      
  organizations that will establish such clinics. Organizations that provide         
  subgrant funding to several legal clinics also will provide the subgrantees with   
  intensive technical assistance. Funding recipients also must provide education     
  and training to criminal justice professionals on victims rights. Specific criteria
  for FY 08 funding have not been determined.                                        
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Eligible applicants for FY 07 funding are public agencies, colleges and            
  universities, state governments, and private, nonprofit organizations, including   
  faith-based organizations, that can demonstrate capability to carry out all        
  activities required by the funded project. Eligibility for FY 08 funding has not   
  been determined.                                                                   
                                                                                     
Beneficiary Eligibility:

  The immediate beneficiaries are individual victims of crime, as well as the        
  general public. Because victims' rights will be enforced in criminal court, the    
  rights of future victims of crime are more likely to be recognized in the criminal 
  justice system.                                                                    
                                                                                     
Credentials/Documentation:

  Applications for this program must be on Standard Form 424 at a time specified     
  by the Office for Victims of Crime, Office Justice Programs and must contain       
  the following certification and assurances: (1) assure that the applicant will     
  provide such accounting, auditing, monitoring and evaluation procedures as may     
  be necessary, and keep such records as the Office of Justice Programs may          
  prescribe, to assure fiscal control, proper management and efficient               
  disbursement of Federal funds; (2) assure that the applicant will adhere to the    
  audit and financial management requirements set forth in the effective addition    
  of OJP Financial Guide; (3) assure that the applicant will comply with all         
  applicable nondiscrimination requirements; (4) certify that the applicant will     
  comply with certifications regarding Lobbying, Debarment, Suspension, and          
  Drug-Free Workplace Requirements (OJP Form 4061/6); and other                      
  responsibility matters; and, (5) certify that the information in the application is
  correct and that the applicant will comply with all applicable provisions of       
  Federal Laws, (including subtitle A, Title II of the Americans with Disabilities   
  Act (ADA) 1990) regulations, and circulars. Costs will be determined in            
  accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 or OMB Circular No. A-133.                   
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  Not applicable. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.           
Application Procedure:                                                               
  In accordance with the Common Rule, Standard Form 424 must be submitted by         
  nonfederal agencies in applying for funding under this program.                    
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  This award will be made on a non-competitive basis. The application will be        
  assessed based on established criteria and will be forwarded to the Director of    
  the Office for Victims of Crime. The Assistant Attorney General, Office of         
  Justice Programs has the final approval authority.                                 
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Please contact the program office for application deadline.                        
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Approximately 120 days.                                                            
Appeals:                                                                             




                                                                                11-08
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Awards under this program are issued for a period of 12-18 months.
Reports:
  Quarterly financial reports and semi-annual progress reports will be required as
  stipulated in the effective edition of the OJP Financial Guide. A final financial
  and program report also will be required.
Audits:
  All organizations that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in any
  fiscal year must have a single audit for that year in accordance with OMB
  Circular No. A-133, as amended, unless the audit condition on the award says
  otherwise. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency no later than 9
  months after the end of the grantee's fiscal year.
Records:
  Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other
  records pertinent to a grant shall be retained for a period of three years.
Account Identification:
  15-0401-0-1-754.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $1,974,456; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  FY 07 three awards ($1,600,000; $184,693; $185,024).
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Not applicable.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  None.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Office for Victims of Crime, Office of Justice Programs, Department of Justice,
  810 Seventh Street, NW., Washington, DC 20531. Telephone: (202) 307-5983.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.udoj.gov/ovc.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  16.582, Crime Victim Assistance/Discretionary Grants.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Applications will be reviewed by the OVC Point-of-Contact for the project,
  using the following criteria: Problem(s) to be Addressed and Goals and
  Objectives, Project Design/Implementation Plan, Organizational Capability,
  Plans for Measuring Progress and Outcomes, and Budget and Budget Narrative.
  The problem statement must provide a strong rationale for the project and clearly
  describe how the proposed project will be of value to the victims' field by
  meeting a stated goal. The goals and objectives must be clearly specified and
  related directly to the problem statement. The goal(s) should state the overall
  purpose of what is to be accomplished. If the application is for continuation
  funding, these new goals and objectives should be addressed within the context
  of what the project has already accomplished. The program
  strategy/methodology must include sufficient detail so that the OVC Point-of-
  Contact or other reviewers can understand what will be accomplished, how it
  will be accomplished, and who will accomplish it. All proposed tasks should be
  presented in a way that allows a reviewer to see the logical progression of tasks
  and to be able to relate the tasks directly to the accomplishment of the project
  goal(s) and objectives. Projected activities should be realistic and reflect the
  time, staff, and funding allocated to the project. A clear picture of the contents
  or components of the product or training is important as well as a detailed plan
  for packaging and disseminating the product to user groups. Detailed
  procedures for pilot testing and refining the products should be included if
  applicable. Applicants must demonstrate how their resources, capabilities, and
  experience will enable them to achieve the goals and objectives. Organizational
  capability will be assessed on the basis of (1) the applicant's described
  management structure, financial capability, and if the application is for
  continuation funding, the results of current grant efforts; and (2) the applicant's
  project management plan and documentation of the professional staff member's
  unique qualifications to perform their assigned tasks. Applicants must describe
  their plan for measuring project progress and success. All applications must
  contain a plan for evaluating the accomplishment of project goal(s) and
  objectives. They must describe how data will be collected to report on the
  performance measures established for this solicitation, and they must describe
  how the evaluation data will be gathered, analyzed and the resources that are
  being committed for this purpose. Finally, the OVC Point-of-Contact will
  examine the identified project tasks, milestones, and assignment of staff
  resources within the framework of the proposed budget. They must demonstrate
  that there is sufficient staff and time to accomplish the proposed tasks in a cost-
  effective manner. Applicants must show cost effective and efficient use of grant
                                                                                   625
