  resources, demonstrating that all grant-related expenses are necessary for project  
  completion. All identified costs should accurately reflect the tasks, staff time,   
  supplies, and travel necessary to accomplish the grant-related work, if             
  applicable.                                                                         
                                                                                      
16.748 CONVICTED OFFENDER AND/OR ARRESTEE DNA                                         
                                                                                      
BACKLOG REDUCTION PROGRAM (IN-HOUSE                                                   
ANALYSIS AND DATA REVIEW)                                                             
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF JUSTICE, OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS,                          
  DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE                                                               
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  For FY 06, Science, State, Justice, Commerce, and Related Agencies                  
  Appropriations Act, 2006, Public Law 109-108. FY 07 authorization as yet            
  undetermined.                                                                       
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  The objective of this program is to accelerate the analysis of convicted offender   
  and/or arrestee DNA samples collected by States pursuant to applicable law for      
  databasing purposes (hereinafter, "DNA database samples"), in order to provide      
  timely Combined DNA Index System (CODIS)- compatible data for all 13                
  CODIS core STR loci for State and national DNA databases. Funds are to be           
  used by a State's designated existing and accredited DNA database laboratory to     
  reduce the backlog of DNA database samples in one of three ways: a) Through         
  in-house analysis. The DNA database laboratory will determine what its backlog      
  is and can apply for $35.00 per sample to be analyzed. If the database laboratory   
  lacks funding to ensure timely review of the profiles generated, it may apply for   
  an additional $5.00 per DNA profile generated in-house for a total of $40.00 per    
  sample tested in-house. b) Through sending samples to be tested by accredited       
  fee-for-service laboratories. Funding requests for this option are to be calculated 
  in exactly the same fashion as for the in-house testing option above. c) Through    
  data review of sample profiles generated by an accredited fee-for-service           
  laboratory. If the database laboratory lacks funding to ensure timely review of     
  the profiles generated, it may apply for an additional $5.00 per DNA profile        
  generated. All profiles obtained from DNA database samples with funding             
  provided under this announcement must be entered in the Combined DNA Index          
  System (CODIS) within 90 days of completion of analysis and uploaded to the         
  National DNA Index System (NDIS). Laboratories that receive funds from              
  awards made under this announcement for sample testing and review must track        
  and report the number of DNA database samples analyzed and/or reviewed              
  under this fiscal year (FY) 2008 program and the number of resulting CODIS          
  hits.                                                                               
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Formula Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                            
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  All expenditures from DNA Backlog Reduction Program Awards must directly            
  relate to analysis and data review of Convicted Offender and /or Arrestee DNA       
  database samples by the State's designated DNA database laboratory or to data       
  review profiles generated by an accredited-fee for service laboratory from such     
  samples. Types of expenditures from awards under this program for in-house          
  testing may include the following: Overtime - funds may be used for overtime of     
  in-house laboratory staff directly engaged in (a) handling and analyzing DNA        
  database samples, including handling and analyzing quality assurance samples,       
  and (b) data review of profiles generated by an accredited fee-for-service vendor   
  from DNA database samples that, due to the lack of laboratory resources, have       
  yet to be reviewed and entered into NDIS; Salary and Benefits of Additional         
  Laboratory Employees - funds may be used to hire additional full-time or part-      
  time laboratory employees who will be directly engaged in the handling or           
  analysis of DNA database samples, or the data review of DNA profiles generated      
  from such samples (including profiles generated by accredited fee-for-service       
  vendors); Consultant and Contractor Services for Data Review - Funds may be         
  used to hire consultants and/or temporary contract staff to conduct data review     
  of profiles generated by an accredited fee-for-service vendor from DNA database     
  samples that, due to the lack of laboratory resources, have yet to be reviewed and  
  entered into NDIS; Laboratory and Computer Equipment for the DNA database           
  laboratory - funds may be used for upgrading, replacing, and purchasing             
  laboratory equipment, instrumentation, and computer hardware or software (e.g.,     
  expert systems and Laboratory Information Management Systems) for use in the        
  DNA database laboratory; Certain Supplies - funds may be used to acquire            
  commercially available PCR kits accepted by NDIS, and other laboratory              
  supplies for analysis of DNA database samples, including analysis of quality        
  assurance samples; Renovations - funds may be used for the renovation of            
  facilities that will directly and specifically improve the effectiveness or         
  efficiency of the DNA database laboratory operation; and Administrative             
  Expenses - up to 3 percent of the Federal portion of the award may be used for      
  administrative and grant management expenses directly related to the                
  performance of the project. Types of expenditures from awards under this            
  program for sending samples out for analysis by an accredited fee-for-service       
  laboratory may include the following: O review of DNA database profiles             
                                                                                      
626                                                                             11-08

  generated by an accredited fee-for-service laboratory. Any payments for
  overtime must be in accordance with the applicable provisions of the OJP
  Financial Guide, available at http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/financialguide/.
  Contracts. Funds may be used to establish a contract for testing DNA Database
  samples with an accredited fee-for-service laboratory. Agencies will follow their
  own procurement procedures for establishing these contracts. Any sole source
  requests in excess of $100,000 must be submitted and approved through GMS as
  required in the OJP Financial Guide. Contracts may only be established under
  this solicitation with accredited fee-for-service laboratories that are on the GSA
  Blanket Purchase Agreement list for Convicted Offender DNA Backlog
  Reduction Program (Outsourcing) used by the OJP Contract Office. Consultant
  and Contractor Services for Data Review. Funds may be used to hire consultants
  and/or temporary contract staff to conduct data review of profiles generated by
  an accredited fee-for-service laboratory that, due to the lack of laboratory
  resources, have yet to be reviewed and entered into NDIS. Consultants or
  contract laboratory personnel must meet all NDIS requirements for the review of
  DNA data. Administrative Expenses. Up to 3 percent of the Federal portion of a
  grant awarded under this program may be
  usedfordirectorindirect administrative expenses specifically related to grant
  administration and management. Types of expenditures from awards under this
  program for data review of DNA profiles generated by accredited fee-for-service
  laboratories may include: Overtime for Existing Laboratory Employees. Funds
  may be used to pay overtime for existing laboratory employees who will be
  directly engaged in the review of DNA profiles generated by an accredited fee-
  for-service laboratory. Any payments for overtime must be in accordance with
  the applicable provisions of the OJP Financial Guide, available at
  http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/financialguide/. Consultant and Contractor Services
  for Data Review. Funds may be used to hire consultants and/or temporary
  contract staff to conduct data review of profiles generated by an accredited fee-
  for-service laboratory that, due to the lack of laboratory resources, have yet to be
  reviewed and entered into NDIS. Consultants or contract laboratory personnel
  must meet all NDIS requirements for the review of DNA data. Administrative
  Expenses: Up to 3 percent of the Federal portion of a grant awarded under this
  program may be used for direct or indirect administrative expenses specifically
  related to grant administration and management.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible applicants are States with a designated existing crime laboratory that
  conducts analysis of DNA database samples, provided the designated DNA
  database laboratory meets all of the following requirements: The laboratory is
  accredited by a nonprofit professional association of persons actively involved in
  forensic science that is nationally recognized within the forensic science
  community. If the laboratory requests assistance with analysis of samples in-
  house, then the laboratory must possess sufficient in-house DNA analysis
  capacity to analyze at least 50 percent of its annual receipt of DNA database
  samples, or a minimum of 5,000 DNA database samples per month. The
  laboratory is a participant in the National DNA Index System (NDIS). The
  laboratory undergoes external audits, not less than once every 2 years, to
  demonstrate compliance with DNA Quality Assurance Standards established by
  the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. For purposes of this
  announcement, the term "State" includes the District of Columbia and the
  Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. For those States that use a laboratory operated
  by a unit of local government for analysis of the State's DNA database samples,
  the application must be submitted by the unit of local government having
  oversight of the DNA database program.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Eligible applicants are States with a designated existing crime laboratory that
  conducts analysis of DNA database samples, provided the designated DNA
  database laboratory meets all of the following requirements: The laboratory is
  accredited by a nonprofit professional association of persons actively involved in
  forensic science that is nationally recognized within the forensic science
  community. If the laboratory requests assistance with analysis of samples in-
  house, then the laboratory must possess sufficient in-house DNA analysis
  capacity to analyze at least 50 percent of its annual receipt of DNA database
  samples, or a minimum of 5,000 DNA database samples per month. The
  laboratory is a participant in the National DNA Index System (NDIS). The
  laboratory undergoes external audits, not less than once every 2 years, to
  demonstrate compliance with DNA Quality Assurance Standards established by
  the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. For purposes of this
  announcement, the term "State" includes the District of Columbia and the
  Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. For those States that use a laboratory operated
  by a unit of local government for analysis of the State's DNA database samples,
  the application must be submitted by the unit of local government having
  oversight of the DNA database program.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants must submit a copy of the accreditation certificate of the State's
  designated DNA database laboratory.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Potential applicants are encouraged to request the program announcement for
  additional information about eligibility requirements, the research priorities of
  National Institute of Justice (NIJ), and application and selection procedures.
