  Indicating Environmental Impact Statement: An environmental impact                 
  statement may be required for this program, depending upon the purpose for         
  which funding under this program is awarded. Identifying Programs Pertaining       
  to Executive Order 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs":          
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental         
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official    
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information 
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.                                         
Application Procedure:                                                               
  General information is provided in individual program solicitations, which are     
  obtained by accessing the web site at www.ojp.usdoj.gov/nij, sending a self-       
  addressed mailing label to NCJRS, Box 6000, Rockville, MD 20849-6000; or           
  calling toll free to request a copy at; Telephone: (800) 851-3420. This program    
  is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110 or the Common Rule,         
  where applicable. The Office of Justice Programs (OJP) requires that funding       
  applications be submitted electronically through the OJP Grants Management         
  System (GMS), which will be accessed at                                            
  http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/fundopps.htm. On-line submission of an application        
  represents legal binding acceptance of the terms of the application. For further   
  information about GMS, call the OJP GMS Hotline at 1-888-549-9901.                 
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  All applications will be reviewed by the program office. The NIJ Director makes    
  all final decisions.                                                               
Deadlines:                                                                           
  There is normally one deadline each year, usually in the Spring. The deadline      
  varies based on when program appropriation is passed into law. The Program         
  deadline will be included in the announcements on FedGrants at                     
  www.fedgrants.gov, on NIJ's website at www.ojp.usdoj.gov/nij/funding.htm, and      
  on the Office of Justice Programs website at www.ojp.usdoj.gov/fundopps.htm .      
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Approximately 90 days from application deadline.                                   
Appeals:                                                                             
  Hearing by the NIJ Director.                                                       
Renewals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  There is no State or local match required under this program. However, while       
  funds may be used to hire consultants and/or temporary contract staff to conduct   
  data review of profiles generated by an accredited fee-for-service vendor, NIJ     
  makes no assurance that funds will be available for this purpose in future award

  announcements.

                                                                                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

  Awards under this program are issued for a period of 18 months.                    
Reports:                                                                             
  Fiscal report consisting of quarterly expenditures and budget expenditure          
  reports; final financial report giving costs and expenditures of the complete      
  project; program reports consisting of quarterly performance metrics reports, bi-  
  annual progress reports; and a final report including a summary of program         
  accomplishments. Other reports may be requested.                                   
Audits:                                                                              
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No.A-133 (Revised, June          
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofits                    
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000   
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program specific audit           
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a      
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,   
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.                                             
Records:                                                                             
  Records and accounts concerning the expenditure of Institute and grantee or        
  appointee-contributed funds shall be maintained during the grant period and        
  retained for three years thereafter.                                               
Account Identification:                                                              
  15-0404-0-1-754.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  FY 07 $5,486,756; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not available.            
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  Awards are made in amounts consistent with the applicant's proposed project        
  and the Institute's plans, priorities and levels of financing.                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  In fiscal years 2005 through 2007, the Convicted Offender DNA Backlog              
  Reduction Program (In-House Analysis and Data Review) made a total of 45           
  awards to States with existing crime laboratories that conduct DNA analysis of     
  convicted offender DNA in order to pay for samples to reduce backlogs of           
  convicted offender DNA samples through in-house analysis and data review.          
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  For specific information on eligibility, deadlines, specific uses of funds,        
  application requirements, selection criteria, and all additional requirements,     
  please access the "Convicted Offender and/or Arrestee DNA Backlog Reduction        
  Program (In-House Analysis and Data Review)" solicitation, which is available      


                                                                                11-08
  on NIJ's web site at www.ojp.usdoj.gov/nij.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  National Institute of Justice, Department of Justice, 810 7th Street, NW.,
  Washington, DC 20531. Telephone: (202) 307-2942. FTS: (202) 307-2942.
  Please contact Mark Nelson; Telephone: (202) 616-1960, E-mail:
  Mark.S.Nelson@usdoj.gov; or Minh Nguyen, Program Manager; Telephone:
  (202)305-2664; E-mail: Minh.Nguyen@usdoj.gov.
Web Site Address:
  www.ojp.usdoj.gov/nij.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  16.741, Forensic DNA Backlog Reduction Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  In fiscal year 2006, NIJ made awards to all eligible applicants that satisfied the
  specific application requirements outlined in the funding announcement, the
  general requirements for NIJ and OJP grants, and all other applicable legal
  requirements. As a result, States that received such awards accelerated the
  analysis of convicted offender samples that they collected, law enforcement was
  provided with critical investigative information in a timely manner, and the
  convicted offender DNA profiles obtained with funding from this announcement
  were entered into State and national DNA databases. Specific examples of
  funded projects include: Alaska Department of Public Safety; Alabama
  Department of Forensic Science; California Department of Justice; Georgia
  Bureau of Investigation; Illinois State Police; Kansas Bureau of Investigation;
  Commonwealth of Kentucky; Missouri State Highway Patrol; North Dakota;
  New Jersey Department of Law and Public Safety; New York State Police;
  Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation; Pennsylvania State Police; Texas
  Department of Public Safety; Vermont Department of Public Service;
  Washington State Patrol.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Subject to the availability of appropriated funds and to any modifications or
  additional requirements imposed by law, NIJ anticipates that it will make an
  award to each eligible applicant that satisfies the specific application
  requirements outlined in this announcement (including those concerning
  permissible expenses), the general requirements for NIJ and OJP grants, and all
  other applicable legal requirements. NIJ may also reject applications from
  applicants with prior awards for convicted offender (and/or arrestee) in-house
  analysis that remain entirely unobligated as of the posting date of this
  solicitation.
16.749 RADIATION EXPOSURE COMPENSATION
PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  CIVIL DIVISION, DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE.
AUTHORIZATION:
  Radiation Exposure Compensation Act, Public Law 101-426, 104 Stat. 920, as
  amended and codified at 42 U.S.C. Section 2210 (note).
OBJECTIVES:
  The Radiation Exposure Compensation Act (the Act) offers an apology and
  monetary compensation to individuals who contracted certain cancers and other
  serious diseases following exposure to radiation released during above-ground
  atmospheric nuclear weapons tests or as a result of their employment in the
  uranium production industry.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  None.
Applicant Eligibility:
  There are five different categories of claimants under the Radiation Exposure
  Compensation Program (the Program): uranium miners, uranium millers, ore
  transporters, onsite participants, and downwinders. Uranium miners:
  Individuals who were exposed to 40 or more working level months of radiation
  while employed in a uranium mine or who were employed in a uranium mine for
  at least one year in certain states at any time between January 1, 1942 and
  December 31, 1971 and who have been diagnosed with a specified compensable
  disease are eligible for a payment of $100,000. Uranium millers: Individuals
  who were employed in a uranium mill for at least one year in certain states at
  any time between January 1, 1942 and December 31, 1971 and who have been
  diagnosed with a specified compensable disease are eligible for a payment of
  $100,000. Ore transporters: Individuals who were employed in the transport of
  uranium ore or vanadium-uranium ore from a mine or mill for at least one year
  in certain states at any time between January 1, 1942 and December 31, 1971
  and who have been diagnosed with a specified compensable disease are eligible
  for a payment of $100,000. Onsite participants: Individuals who participated
  onsite in a test involving atmospheric detonation of a nuclear device in certain
  locations and who have been diagnosed with a specified compensable disease
  are eligible for a payment of $75,000. Downwinders: Individuals who were
  physically present in one of the affected areas downwind of the Nevada Test Site
                                                                                   627
