  include public as well as private organizations.                                  
Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  The applicant must submit a completed Application for Federal Assistance          
  (Standard Form 424), including signed assurances that it will comply with         
  statutory and administrative requirements. The applicant is also required to      
  submit a description that includes the goals of the program, the implementation   
  process, timetable for implementation, how the activities of the project will     
  assist the jurisdiction in complying with SORNA.                                  
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                    
Application Procedure:                                                              
  All applications must be submitted electronically at: http://www.grants.gov.      
  Applications or supplemental materials received by facsimile or postal mail will  
  not be accepted. The receipt, review, and analysis of applications will follow    
  Office of Justice Programs policies and procedures for the administration of      
  grant applications.                                                               
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  Generally awards will be made on a competitive basis with applications            
  reviewed by a panel of subject matter experts who will assess application         
  submissions based on established criteria and forward a recommendation to the

  Director. The Assistant Attorney General, Office of Justice Programs has final

                                                                                    
  approval authority. Grantees are notified by E-mail seven to ten days after

  Congress has been notified. Grantees must print award, have signed by the         
  authorized official and returned to the Office of Justice Programs by facsimile or
  mail.

Deadlines:                                                                          
  See the program solicitation or contact the Department of Justice, Office of      
  Justice Programs, SMART Office, at (202) 514-4689, or by E-mail:                  
  GetSMART@usdoj.gov.                                                               
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  Applications will generally be approved or denied within 180 days of receipt of a 
  completed application.                                                            
Appeals:                                                                            
  Determined by the Assistant Attorney General, OJP.                                
Renewals:                                                                           
  Awards range from 12 to 18 months, unless otherwise noted.                        
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  Grants are discretionary and are awarded based on the merits of the application   
  submitted to the SMART Office. A 25 percent match is required for this grant      
  program, and the funding for this project may not exceed 75 percent.              
  Contributions may be cash, in-kind services, or a combination of both.            
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  Funds for each fiscal year will be awarded for a period of 12 to 18 months.       
Reports:                                                                            
  Recipients are required to submit semi-annual Progress Reports and quarterly      
  Financial Reports.                                                                
Audits:                                                                             
  Payments and transactions are subject to audits by the Government                 
  Accountability Office, Department of Justice's Office of the Inspector General,   
  State or local government auditors, and auditors from independent public          
  accounting firms. Jurisdictions must follow their local policies and procedures,  
  including maintenance of reliable and accurate accounting systems, record         
  keeping, and systems of internal control. All organizations that expend financial 
  assistance of $500,000 or more in any fiscal year must have a single audit for    
  that year in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-133, as amended, unless the       
  audit condition on the award says otherwise. These audits are due to the          
  cognizant Federal agency not later than nine months after the end of the grantee's
  fiscal year.                                                                      
Records:                                                                            
  In accordance with the requirement set forth in 28 CFR Parts 66 and 70,           
  grantees must maintain all financial records, supporting documents, statistical   
  records, and all other records pertinent to the award for at least three years    
  following the close of the most recent audit.                                     
Account Identification:                                                             
  15-0404-0-1-754.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  FY 07 $6,040,000; FY 08 $18,960,000; and FY 09 est not available.                 
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  Varies. Awards up to $300,000.                                                    
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  None.

                                                                                    
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

                                                                                    
  Program Guidance and Application Kit, and the OJP Financial Guide.

Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  None.                                                                             
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  SMART Office, Office of Justice Programs, Department of Justice, 810 Seventh      
  Street, NW., Washington, DC 20531. Telephone: (202) 514-4689.                     
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/smart.                                                   
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   


                                                                               11-08
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  A review panel convened by the SMART Office will evaluate all applications on
  the basis of the following criteria: (1) the application identifies a problem that is
  consistent with the purposes of this initiative; (2) the application describes a
  project that effectively addresses the problem statement; (3) the implementation
  strategy, time line, and capability of the organization and staff are sound; (4) the
  application articulates clearly the jurisdiction's goals, outcomes, and objectives
  and describes the accountability system and performance measures to determine
  progress towards achieving them; (5) the project demonstrates meaningful
  attention to the safety of victims and the general public by supporting
  jurisdiction's efforts to substantially comply with SORNA thus ensuring sex
  offender registration and tracking; (8) the application identifies specific
  individuals, or a process to identify individuals, to serve as the Grant
  Manager/Grant Coordinator, and demonstrates the skills, roles, and involvement
  of these individuals; and (9) the budget is reasonable as it relates to project
  activities.
16.751 EDWARD BYRNE MEMORIAL COMPETITIVE
GRANT PROGRAM
   (Byrne Competitive Program)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE, OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS, BUREAU
  OF JUSTICE ASSISTANCE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2008.
OBJECTIVES:
  To improve the functioning of the criminal justice system, such as activities
  pertaining to crime prevention, control, or reduction, or the enforcement of the
  criminal law, including, but not limited to, police efforts to prevent, control, or
  reduce crime or to apprehend criminals, including juveniles, activities of courts
  having criminal jurisdiction, and related agencies (including but not limited to
  prosecutorial and defender services, juvenile delinquency agencies and pretrial
  service or release agencies), activities of corrections, probation, or parole
  authorities and related agencies assisting in the rehabilitation, supervision, and
  care of criminal offenders, and programs relating to the prevention, control, or
  reduction of narcotic addiction and juvenile delinquency.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The Byrne Competitive Program helps improve the capacity of local criminal
  justice systems and provides for national support efforts such as training and
  technical assistance projects to strategically address needs. Funds can be used
  for national scope replication, expansion, enhancement, training, and/or
  technical assistance programs.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible applicants include national, regional, State, or local public and private
  entities, including for-profit (commercial) and nonprofit organizations, faith-
  based and community organizations, institutions of higher education, tribal
  jurisdictions, and units of local government.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  State and local governments, public and private organizations, individuals and
  tribal governments.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with 2 CFR Part 225 for State and local
  governments and 2 CFR Part 230 for nonprofit organizations.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The standard application form (SF-424), as furnished by the federal agency in
  accordance with 28 CFR Part 66 (Common Rule), must be used for this
  program.
Application Procedure:
  The standard application forms, as furnished by the federal agency and required
  by the Common Rule, must be used for this program. This program is also
  subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110. All applications must be
  submitted electronically via Grants.gov (www.grants.gov) or the Office of
  Justice Programs' Grants Management System (GMS) at
  https://grants.ojp.usdoj.gov). Applications or supplemental materials received by
  facsimile or postal mail will not be accepted.
Award Procedure:
  Upon approval by the Assistant Attorney General, letters and an award package
  are sent to the grantee. One copy of the grant award must be signed by duly
  authorized representative and returned to BJA.
Deadlines:
  Varies for competitive programs. See the program solicitation or contact the
  Department of Justice, Office of Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Assistance.
  Telephone: (1-866) 859-2687; E-mail: byrne.discretionary@usdoj.gov.
                                                                                      629
