Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Varies for competitive programs.                                                     
Appeals:                                                                               
  See 28 CFR Part 18.                                                                  
Renewals:                                                                              
  Continuation grants are renewable.                                                   
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  Grants may be made for amounts up to 100 percent of the costs of the programs        
  or projects contained in the approved applications.                                  
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Varies. Contingent upon program goals and objectives, generally 12-18 months.        
Reports:                                                                               
  Unless otherwise specified in the award's special conditions, financial reports are  
  due quarterly and progress reports are due semi-annually; in some cases,             
  evaluation reports may be required.                                                  
Audits:                                                                                
  Payments and transactions are subject to audits by the Government                    
  Accountability Office, Department of Justices Office of the Inspector General,       
  state or local government auditors, and auditors from independent public             
  accounting firms. Jurisdictions must follow their local policies and procedures,     
  including maintenance of reliable and accurate accounting systems, record            
  keeping, and systems of internal control. All organizations that expend financial    
  assistance of $500,000 or more in any fiscal year must have a single audit for       
  that year in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-133, as amended, unless the          
  audit condition on the award says otherwise. These audits are due to the             
  cognizant federal agency not later than 9 months after the end of the grantees       
  fiscal year. Performance Measures: To assist in fulfilling the Departments           
  responsibilities under the Government Performance and Results Act (GPRA),            
  Public Law 103-62, applicants who receive funding under this solicitation must       
  provide data that measures the results of their work.                                
Records:                                                                               
  Recipients of federal funds are expected to retain documentation supporting all      
  program transactions for at least 3 years after the closure of audit reports related 
  to such funding. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, or other action       
  involving records has been started before the expiration of the 3-year period, the   
  records must be retained until completion of the action and resolution of all        
  related issues, or until the end of the regular 3-year period, whichever is later.   
Account Identification:                                                                
  15-0404-0-1-754.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  FY 07 $0; FY 08 est $16,000,000; and FY 09 est not available.                        
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  Varies.                                                                              
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  This is a general purpose assistance program for all components of the criminal      
  justice system with programs ranging from crime prevention to correctional           
  alternatives to law enforcement to community justice interventions. It supports a    
  broad range of technical assistance and training agents as well as site-based        
  demonstration programs.                                                              
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  Office of Justice Programs' Financial Guide 2006                                     
  (www.ojp.usdoj.gov/financialguide/index.htm) and Postaward Instructions              
  (www.ojp.usdoj.gov/funding/pdfs/post_award_instructions.pdf) are applicable.         
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  None.                                                                                
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Office of Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Assistance, Department of Justice,     
  810 Seventh Street, N.W., Washington, DC 20531. Contact: Telephone: (202)            
  616-6500 or (1-866) 859-2687; E-mail: AskBJA@usdoj.gov.                              
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  www.ojp.usdoj.gov/BJA.                                                               
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  None.                                                                                
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  Neighborhood Watch; preventing and investigating motor vehicle title fraud and       
  theft; law enforcement gang investigations; community prosecution; problem-          
  solving courts; state and local prosecutor training; offender reentry initiatives;   
  substance abuse and mental health needs of offenders; information sharing            
  within the criminal justice system; and training and technical assistance to         
  prevent crime and drug abuse; enhance local law enforcement, courts, and             
  corrections; and facilitate justice information sharing.                             
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  Contact BJA for more information.                                                    
                                                                                       
16.752 ECONOMIC HIGH-TECH AND CYBER CRIME                                              
                                                                                       
PREVENTION

                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE, OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS, BUREAU                            
  OF JUSTICE ASSISTANCE                                                                


630                                                                              11-08

AUTHORIZATION:
  Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2008.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide a nationwide support system for agencies involved in the prevention,
  investigation, and prosecution of economic electronic and cyber crimes and to
  support and partner with other appropriate entities in addressing homeland
  security initiatives, as they relate to electronic and cyber crimes. It provides
  training, technical assistance, and/or resources to State, local and tribal law
  enforcement, prosecutor, and other agencies on how to prevent, combat,
  investigate and prosecute electronic and cyber crimes.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The Economic High-Tech and Cyber Crime Prevention program helps improve
  the capacity of local criminal justice systems to address electronic and cyber
  crimes and provides for national support efforts such as training and technical
  assistance projects to strategically address needs.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible applicants include national, regional, State, or local public and private
  entities, including for-profit (commercial) and nonprofit organizations, faith-
  based and community organizations, institutions of higher education, tribal
  jurisdictions, and units of local government.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  State and local law enforcement agencies, prosecutor, and other criminal justice
  agencies.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with 2 CFR Part 225 for State and local
  governments and 2 CFR Part 230 for nonprofit organizations.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The standard application form (SF-424), as furnished by the federal agency in
  accordance with 28 CFR Part 66 (Common Rule), must be used for this
  program. For State applicants, this program is eligible for coverage under E.O.
  12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should
  consult the office or officials designated as the single point of contact in his or
  her State for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in
  applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  The standard application forms, as furnished by the federal agency and required
  by the Common Rule, must be used for this program. This program is also
  subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110. All applications must be
  submitted electronically via Grants.gov (www.grants.gov) or the Office of
  Justice Programs' Grants Management System (GMS) at
  https://grants.ojp.usdoj.gov). Applications or supplemental materials received by
  facsimile or postal mail will not be accepted.
Award Procedure:
  Upon approval by the Assistant Attorney General, letters and an award package
  are sent to the grantee. One copy of the grant award must be signed by duly
  authorized representative and returned to BJA.
Deadlines:
  Varies for competitive programs. See the program solicitation or contact the
  Department of Justice, Office of Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Assistance.
  Telephone: (1-866) 859-2687 or E-mail: AskBJA@usdoj.gov.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Varies for competitive programs.
Appeals:
  See 28 CFR Part 18.
Renewals:
  Continuation grants are renewable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Grants may be made for amounts up to 100 percent of the costs of the programs
  or projects contained in the approved applications.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Varies. Contingent upon program goals and objectives, generally 12-18 months.
Reports:
  Unless otherwise specified in the award's special conditions, financial reports are
  due quarterly and progress reports are due semi-annually; in some cases,
  evaluation reports may be required.
Audits:
  Payments and transactions are subject to audits by the Government
  Accountability Office, Department of Justice's Office of the Inspector General,
  state or local government auditors, and auditors from independent public
  accounting firms. Jurisdictions must follow their local policies and procedures,
  including maintenance of reliable and accurate accounting systems, record
  keeping, and systems of internal control. All organizations that expend financial
  assistance of $500,000 or more in any fiscal year must have a single audit for
  that year in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-133, as amended, unless the
  audit condition on the award says otherwise. These audits are due to the
  cognizant federal agency not later than 9 months after the end of the grantee's
  fiscal year. Performance Measures: To assist in fulfilling the Department's
  responsibilities under the Government Performance and Results Act (GPRA),
