16.754 HAROLD ROGERS PRESCRIPTION DRUG                                                  
MONITORING PROGRAM                                                                      
                                                                                        
      (Harold Rogers PDMP )                                                             
                                                                                        
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                         
  OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS, BUREAU OF JUSTICE ASSISTANCE,                             
  DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE                                                                 
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                          
  Public Law 110-161, 121 Stat. 1909: Public Law 110-329.                               
OBJECTIVES:                                                                             
  To enhance the capacity of regulatory and law enforcement agencies to collect         
  and analyze controlled substance prescription data through a centralized              
  database administered by an authorized State agency.                                  
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                    
  Project Grants.                                                                       
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                              
  Funding for planning grants can be used to assist in planning for a data              
  collection and analysis system by engaging key stakeholders in the state in the       
  planning process. Funding for implementation grants may be used to plan,              
  establish, and build a data collection and analysis system; develop an                
  infrastructure to support programmatic activities; facilitate the exchange of         
  information and collected prescription data among states; facilitate the              
  establishment of collaborations; develop a training program for system users;         
  produce and disseminate educational materials; and assess the efficiency and          
  effectiveness of the program. Funding for enhancement grants may be used to           
  enhance a data collection and analysis system; develop infrastructure to support      
  programmatic activities; enhance an existing training program; support                
  collaborations with law enforcement and prosecutors; support collaborations           
  with treatment providers and drug courts; facilitate information sharing among        
  states; expand monitoring to Schedules III, IV, and V; and assess the efficiency      
  and effectiveness of the program. Up to 25 percent of enhancement funds can be        
  used towards operating expenses. The remaining funds should be used to                
  enhance the functioning of an existing program.                                       
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                  
  Applicants are limited to states ("States" includes the 50 states, the District of    
  Columbia, Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Northern Mariana Islands, U.S.                 
  Virgin Islands, Guam, and American Samoa). States are eligible for                    
  implementation and enhancement grants if they have in place an enabling statute       
  or regulation requiring the submission of controlled substance prescription data      
  to an authorized state agency. State agencies are eligible for planning grant         
  funds if they do not have enabling statutes or regulations in place.                  
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                
  Beneficiaries are limited to states ("States" includes the 50 states, the District of 
  Columbia, Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Northern Mariana Islands, U.S.                 
  Virgin Islands, Guam, and American Samoa). States are eligible for                    
  implementation and enhancement grants if they have in place an enabling statute       
  or regulation requiring the submission of controlled substance prescription data      
  to an authorized state agency. State agencies are eligible for planning grant         
  funds if they do not have enabling statutes or regulations in place.                  
Credentials/Documentation:                                                              
  The applicant must submit a completed Application for Federal Assistance              
  (Standard Form 424), including signed assurances that it will comply with             
  statutory and administrative requirements. By certifying on-line, the authorizing     
  signing official is also assuring that all federal certifications and assurances are  
  being met. The certification and assurance forms (Assurances, OJP Form 4000/3         
  and Certifications Regarding Lobbying; Debarment, Suspension and Other                
  Responsibility Matters; and Drug-Free Workplace Requirements, OJP Form                
  4061/6) are provided on-line to allow applicants to review and accept them            
  electronically.                                                                       
Preapplication Coordination:                                                            
  No formal preapplication coordination is required. While informal                     
  preapplication coordination is not required, it is encouraged that applicants         
  coordinate with any facilities for which they have responsibility to detain or        
  incarcerate undocumented criminal aliens. This program is excluded from               
  coverage under E.O. 12372 "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs."             
Application Procedure:                                                                  
  Applications must be submitted through the online, Internet-based Grants              
  Management System (GMS) at: https://grants.ojp.usdoj.gov/. Faxed or mailed            
  applications or supplemental materials will not be accepted.                          
Award Procedure:                                                                        
  All applications will be peer reviewed. The BJA Director will then make award         
  recommendations to OJP's Assistant Attorney General, who will make a final            
                                                                                        
  determination.

Deadlines:

  See the program solicitation, consult the Application Kit, or contact the

  Department of Justice, Office of Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Assistance,

  at (1-866) 859-2687 or by e-mail at AskBJA@usdoj.gov for application

  deadline.

Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:



632                                                                               11-08

  Applications will generally be approved or denied within 60 days of receipt of a
  complete application.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Subject to congressional appropriation.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Awards are made within 90 days of application end date.
Reports:
  Recipients are required to submit quarterly Financial Reports, and semi-annual
  Progress Reports. Successful applicants will be required to work with
  designated national organizations to implement the training at the state level and
  keep the training current with changing laws.
Audits:
  Recipients who expend $500,000 or more of Federal funds during their fiscal
  year are required to submit an organization-wide financial and compliance audit
  report in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-133, as amended, and as stated
  in the on-line payment process. Receipt of SCAAP payments is considered in
  establishing the requirement for an audit under the Single Audit Act. In
  accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June 27,
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133. Performance Measures: To assist in fulfilling the
  Department's responsibilities under the Government Performance and Results
  Act (GPRA), Public Law 103-62, applicants who receive funding under this
  solicitation must provide data that measures the results of their work.
Records:
  Records In accordance with the requirement set forth in 28 CFR Parts 66 and 70,
  grantees must maintain all financial records, supporting documents, statistical
  records, and all other records pertinent to the award for at least 3 years following
  the close of the most recent audit.
Account Identification:
  15-0404-0-1-754.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $7,500,000; FY 08 $6,600,000; and FY 09 est $6,600,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  For planning grants, applicant can request up to $50,000. The maximum project
  period for planning grants is 15 months. For implementation grants, applicant
  can request up to $400,000. The maximum project period for implementation
  grants is 24 months. For enhancement grants, applicant can request up to
  $400,000. The maximum project period for enhancement grants is 24 months.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Since inception of the program in 2002, over 100 grants have been awarded
  through the Harold Rogers Prescription Drug Monitoring Program to states to
  support them in their efforts to plan for, implement, or enhance a prescription
  drug monitoring program. Prior to fiscal year 2002, there were 15 states
  operating PDMPs. Since the inception of the Harold Rogers Prescription Drug
  Monitoring Program, this funding opportunity has resulted in 21 states receiving
  new program grants and 13 states netting planning grants. There are now 26
  operating PDMPs and 9 states with legislation in place to establish a program.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Program Application Kit and Questions and Answers posted regularly on the
  OJP website at: http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/BJA/ . The OJP Financial Guide can
  be viewed at: http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/financialguide/.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Rebecca Rose, Senior Policy Advisor, Bureau of Justice Assistance, State Policy
  Office, 810 Seventh Street N.W., Washington, DC 20531. Telephone: 202-616-
  6500 or (1-866) 859-2687. E-mail: AskBJA@usdoj.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/BJA/grant/ or
  http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/BJA/grant/prescripdrugs.html.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Please refer to website for funded projects.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  See solicitation for selection criteria and required elements.
