  http://www.doleta.gov/ .                                                             
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  17.207, Employment Service/Wagner-Peyser Funded Activities; 17.260, WIA              
  Dislocated Workers; 17.303, Wage and Hour Standards.                                 
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  Not applicable.                                                                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  Not applicable.                                                                      
                                                                                       
17.207 EMPLOYMENT SERVICE/WAGNER-PEYSER                                                
                                                                                       
FUNDED ACTIVITIES                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF                                
  LABOR                                                                                
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Wagner-Peyser Act of 1933, 48 Stat. 113 as amended, Public Law 105-220;              
  Workforce Investment Act of 1998.                                                    
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To assist persons to secure employment and workforce information by providing        
  a variety of job search assistance and information services without charge to job    
  seekers and to employers seeking qualified individuals to fill job openings.         
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Formula Grants; Project Grants.                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  The Wagner-Peyser Act of 1933 established a nationwide system of public              
  employment offices which is known as the Employment Service. Wagner-Peyser           
  was amended by the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 making the                       
  Employment Service part of the One- Stop delivery system. The Wagner-Peyser          
  funded activities are an integral part of the One Stop delivery system that          
  provides an integrated array of high-quality services so that workers, job seekers,  
  and businesses can access the services they need under one roof in easy-to-reach     
  locations, with many services also offered through self-service electronic access.   
  These services includes assessment of skill levels, abilities and aptitudes, career  
  guidance when appropriate, job search workshops, and referral to training as         
  appropriate. The services offered to employers, in addition to referral of job       
  seekers to job openings, include matching job requirements with job seeker           
  experience, skills and other attributes, helping with special recruitment needs,     
  assisting employers analyze hard-to-fill job orders, assisting with job              
  restructuring and helping employers deal with layoffs. Additional services may       
  include: 1) a computerized career information system including access to state       
  job bank resources and institutions and organizations that provide training; 2)      
  the development and distribution of state and local workforce information which      
  allows job seekers, employers, and providers and planners of job training and        
  economic development to obtain information pertaining to job opportunities,          
  labor supply, labor market or workforce trends, and the market situation in          
  particular industries. Veterans receive priority referral to jobs as well as special 
  employment services and assistance. In addition, the system provides specialized     
  service to individuals with disabilities, as well as, such groups as Indians and     
  Native Americans, migrant and seasonal farmworkers, ex-offenders, youth, and         
  older workers. These Wagner-Peyser-funded programs involve a Federal-state           
  partnership between the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL), Employment and               
  Training Administration (ETA) and the state workforce agency. The Federal            
  government provides general direction, funding, and oversight. In addition the       
  Federal government partners with states to provide for a number of tools and         
  resources such as development and maintenance of the Occupational                    
  Information Network (O*NET), Analyst Resource Center, and CareerOneStop              
  (www.careeronestop.org), a self-service, integrated suite of workforce               
  information Web sites that provide career resources and workforce information        
  to businesses, job seekers, students, and workforce professionals.                   
  CareerOneStop includes: 1. Career InfoNet (www.careerinfonet.org) which helps        
   individuals explore their career opportunities to make informed career choices      
  by providing national, state, and local career information and workforce data; 2.    
  America's Service Locator (www.servicelocator.org) which connects individuals        
  to employment and training opportunities available at their local One-Stop           
                                                                                       
  Career Center and links them to a range of local workforce services; 3. Career

                                                                                       
  Voyages (www.careervoyages.gov) which provides information on in-demand

                                                                                       
  occupations in high-growth industries along with skills and education

                                                                                       
  requirements to advance in a career path toward a brighter future; 4. O*Net

                                                                                       
  Online (http://online.onetcenter.org) is the nation's primary source of

                                                                                       
  occupational skills and competency information, providing comprehensive

                                                                                       
  information on key attributes and characteristics of workers and occupations; 5.

  Competency Model Clearinghouse (www.careeronestop.org/CompetencyModel)               
                                                                                       
  which provides access to competency models for careers in high-growth

                                                                                       
  industries, giving educators, the workforce system, and businesses a common

                                                                                       
  industry-driven framework for developing curriculum, and increasing awareness

                                                                                       
  of industry skill requirements;                                                      
  6.KeytoCareerSuccess(www.careeronestop.org/militarytransition) offers career         
  information and links to services that help veterans and military service            
  members successfully transition to civilian careers; and, 7. Online Coaches



638                                                                              11-08

  (www.workforcetools.org/online-coach.asp) which provide interactive, step-by-
  step instructions on using ETA-funded Web-based tools.Under Wagner -Peyser
  Act Section 7(b), ten percent of the total sums allotted to each state workforce
  agency shall be reserved for use by the governor to provide performance
  incentives; services for groups with special needs; and for the extra costs of
  exemplary models for delivering job services. In addition, a Toll Free Help Lines
  is funded to provide customer service: 1-877-US2-JOBS or TTY 1-877-889-
  5627.
Applicant Eligibility:
  States, the District of Columbia, Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico, and Guam.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  All employers seeking workers, persons seeking employment, and associated
  groups. Priority of service is given to veterans; veterans with disabilities receive
  preferential treatment over other veterans.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Cost will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 as codified
  in 41 CFR 1-15.7 for state and local governments.
Preapplication Coordination:
  State workforce agencies are provided preliminary planning estimates in January
  of each year preceding the program year for which funds are allotted. Final
  planning estimates are issued annually by late March. The standard application
  forms furnished by the Federal agency and required by OMB Circular No. A-
  102 must be used for this program. This program is excluded from coverage
  under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  The governor submits a single Strategic State Plan in accordance with one of the
  Planning Guidances, either Stand-Alone or Unified, issued through the Federal
  Register. The Planning Guidance provides detailed instruction on what must be
  included in the State Plan. The Unified Planning Guidance provides a
  framework for collaboration across programs and integration of services beyond
  WIA Title I programs and Wagner-Peyser Activities, including non-DOL
  programs and other DOL programs. The plan is submitted to the Federal
  Coordinator for Plan Review and Approval (currently Janet Sten), Division of
  Workforce System Support, Office of Workforce Investment, Employment and
  Training Administration, Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue, NW,
  Room S-4231, Washington, DC 20210.
Award Procedure:
  Those portions of the State Plan over which the Assistant Secretary for
  Employment and Training exercises authority are reviewed and approved by the
  Employment and Training Administration. Formula funds are awarded to the
  states based on a statutory formula provided in the authorizing legislation.
Deadlines:
  Established each year (contact Federal agency for deadline for application
  submission).
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  As provided in regulations.
Appeals:
  As provided in regulations.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Funds are allotted to each state workforce agency in accordance with the formula
  set forth at Section 6 of the Wagner-Peyser Act (29 U.S.C. 493). The formula is
  based on each state's share of the civilian labor force and unemployment. The
  Secretary of Labor is required to set aside up to three percent of the total
  available funds to assure that each state workforce agency will have sufficient
  resources to maintain statewide Wagner-Peyser-funded activities, as required
  under Section 6(b)(4) of the Wagner-Peyser Act. There are no matching
  requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Formula funds are provided at the beginning of a program year and are available
  for expenditure during that program year and the succeeding two program years.
Reports:
  As provided for in regulations.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), audits of states, local governments, and nonprofit organizations;
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Standard records for audits are required.
Account Identification:
  16-0179-0-1-999.
Obligations:
  (Formula Grants) FY 07 $729,000,000; FY 08 est $704,000,000; and FY 09 est
  $0 (Project Grants) FY 07 $107,000,000; FY 08 est $54,000,000; and FY 09 est
  $33,000,000.
