  State agencies pay unemployment compensation to eligible workers and collect        
  state unemployment taxes from employers. These agencies also pay                    
  unemployment benefits and adjustment allowances to eligible former Federal          
  civilian employees (UCFE), ex-service members (UCX), disaster unemployment          
  assistance (DUA), and trade-impacted workers (TRA & ATAA).                          
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  "Unemployment Insurance For Ex-Service Members;" "Unemployment                      
  Insurance For Federal Workers;" "Significant Provisions of State Unemployment       
  Insurance Laws;" "Comparison of State Unemployment Insurance Laws;" and             
  regulations, factsheets, and other program information are available on the         
  Internet at http://workforcesecurity.doleta.gov/unemploy.                           
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Local One-Stop center; State Workforce Agency; Employment and Training              
  Administration regional offices listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.               
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Administrator, Office of Workforce Security, Employment and Training                
  Administration, Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue, N.W.                  
  Washington, DC 20210. Telephone: (202) 693-3029. Contact: Cheryl                    
  Atkinson.                                                                           
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://workforcesecurity.doleta.gov/.                                               
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  17.207, Employment Service/Wagner-Peyser Funded Activities; 57.001, Social          
  Insurance for Railroad Workers; 17.245, Trade Adjustment Assistance; 97.034,        
  Disaster Unemployment Assistance.                                                   
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  See Uses and Use Restrictions Section of the program.                               
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  None.                                                                               
                                                                                      
17.235 SENIOR COMMUNITY SERVICE EMPLOYMENT                                            
                                                                                      
PROGRAM                                                                               
      (SCSEP)                                                                         
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF                               
  LABOR                                                                               
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Older Americans Act of 1965, Title V, as amended by Public Law 109-365;             
  (OAA-2006); 120 Stat. 2522, 42 U.S.C. 3001.                                         
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To foster individual economic self sufficiency; provide training in meaningful      
  part-time opportunities in community service activities for unemployed low-         
  income persons who are age 55 years of age or older, particularly persons who       
  have poor employment prospects; and to increase the number of older persons         
  who may enjoy the benefits of unsubsidized employment in both the public and        
  private sectors.                                                                    
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Formula Grants; Project Grants.                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Organizations that receive grants use the funds to create and pay for part-time     
  community service training positions for persons age 55 and above whose             
  income is at or below 125 percent of the poverty level. The individuals who are     
  enrolled may be trained in work assignments at local service agencies (e.g.,        
  schools, hospitals, day care centers, park systems, etc.). A portion of the funds   
  may be used to provide participants with classroom training and supportive          
  services. No more than 13.5 percent of the Federal share of the costs may be        
  spent for administration. (If justified, a waiver to 15 percent may be provided by  
  the Department of Labor.) Participants may not train in projects involving          
  political activities, sectarian activities, nor may participants displace any       
  employed worker or perform work which impairs existing contracts for service.       
  Each local project is required to coordinate its activities with local Workforce    
  Investment Act projects and One-Stop Career Centers and the State Office of the     
  Aging.                                                                              
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  The following types of organizations are eligible to receive grants: (1) states and 
  U.S. territories; (2) national public and private non-profit                        
  institutions/organizations, other than political parties but including faith-based  
  and community organizations; and (3) tribal organizations.                          
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Adults 55 years or older with a family income at or below 125 percent of the        
  Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) poverty level. Prospective           
  participants must provide documentation relative to age and personal financial      
  status which is required to determine whether the individual is program eligible.   
  With certain exceptions, the Census Bureau's Current Population Survey              
  definition of income governs the determination of SCSEP applicant income            
  eligibility. Section 518 (a)(3)(A)OAA-2006 specifies that any income that is        
  unemployment compensation, a benefit received under title XVI of the Social         
  security Act; a payment made to or on behalf of veterans or former members of       


640                                                                             11-08

  the Armed forces under the laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans
  Affairs, or 25 percent of a benefit received under title II of the Social Security
  Act is excluded from SCSEP income eligibility determinations.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants must meet the eligibility test under Section 514(c) and the
  responsibility test under Section 514(d) of the Older Americans Act.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her state for more information
  on the process the state requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  state has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  National nonprofit organizations are required under Section 502(d) of the Older
  Americans Act to submit an application to the state agency, in addition to the
  Department of Labor. The Division of Adult Services in the Employment and
  Training Administration will provide information concerning proper application,
  format, and content and furnish standard application forms. Governors may
  comment on SCSEP grant proposals prior to award and may make
  recommendations to the Secretary of Labor to improve the distribution of
  SCSEP services.
Award Procedure:
  Awards are made directly to eligible applicants by the Employment and Training
  Administration of the Department of Labor.
Deadlines:
  Contact the Department of Labor for application deadlines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately eight weeks.
Appeals:
  Appeals may be filed according to the regulations at 20 CFR 641.900.
Renewals:
  Grantees must meet the eligibility and responsibility test each year in order to be
  funded. In addition, grantees must meet negotiated performance measures
  described in Section 513(b) of OAA-2006, in administrative guidance, and in an
  Interim Final Rule on SCSEP Performance Accountability to be published prior
  to July 1, 2007.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The statutory allocation formula at Section 506 of OAA -2006 provides for the
  distribution of funds on the basis of a hold-harmless factor, the number of
  persons aged 55 and over residing in each state and the per capita income (PCI)
  in each state. The statistical sources used for fund allocation are based on census
  data. Below the state level, funds are distributed on the basis of persons over the
  age of 55 at or below 125 percent of the poverty guidelines as determined by the
  DHHS and Census P-60 Current Population Reports. Grantees must provide or
  arrange through third parties at least 10 percent of the cost of the project from
  non-Federal sources. The grantee share of the cost may be contributed in cash or
  in-kind. This program has Maintenance of Effort requirements described at
  Section 502(b)(1)(G) of OAA-2006 and 20 CFR 641.844 of the 2004 Final Rule.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Funding is provided annually. The program year runs from July 1 to June 30.
Reports:
  (1) Quarterly Progress Reports; (2) Quarterly Financial Status Report (FSR); (3)
  Annual Equitable Distribution Report; and (4) A 4-year strategic State Plan, to
  be reviewed and updated no less frequently than every two years. The Quarterly
  Progress Reports are generated by the SCSEP Performance and Results QPR
  (SPARQ) system located within the Department of Labor. All other reports are
  submitted electronically by the grantees. For the quarterly FSR, permitted
  applicant organizational costs will be determined in accordance with OMB
  Circular Nos. A-87 for state and local governments, and A-122 for nonprofit
  organizations.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of states, local governments, and nonprofit organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that receive financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Normally to be retained by the grant or contract recipient for a three-year period
  following the completion of the grant or contract. Grantees are required to
  submit participant data via high-speed Internet access to a DOL-sponsored data
  collection system.
Account Identification:
  16-0175-0-1-504.
Obligations:
  (National program grants) FY 07 $375,000,000; FY 08 est $391,000,000; FY
  09 est $273,000,000 (State program grants) FY 07 $109,000,000; FY 08 est
  $131,000,000; and FY 09 est $77,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
