  Grant awards have ranged from $86 million to $330,000.                             
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  For Program Year (PY) 2006, 60,400 subsidized, part-time training positions        
  were available. Approximately 93,500 people were served in these positions in      
  PY 2006. Approximately 20,000 participants exited the program to begin a job.      
  In a typical program year, approximately 74 grant awards are made.                 
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  20 CFR 641; Training and Employment Guidance Letters, Training and                 
  Employment Notices, previously issued Older Worker Bulletins that are still in     
  effect and other SCSEP directives.                                                 
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  Region 1, Dana Bourne, Telephone: (617) 788-0122; Region 2, Chantal Watler,        
  Telephone: (215) 861-5224; Region 3, Deborah Bradley, Telephone: (404) 302-        
  5379; Region 4, Marilyn Brandenburg, Telephone: (214) 767-2257; Region 5,          
  Celeste Moerle, Telephone: (312)596-5422; Region 6, Ingrid Nyberg,                 
  Telephone: (415) 625-7947.                                                         
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Judith Gilbert, Division of Adult Services, Office of Workforce Investment,        
  Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor, Room S-4209,          
  200 Constitution Avenue, N.W., Washington, DC 20210. Telephone: (202) 693-         
  3938. Fax: (202) 693-3817.                                                         
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.doleta.gov/seniors/.                                                    
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  17.258, WIA Adult Program.                                                         
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  The Employment and Training Administration makes grant awards available to         
  50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands,    
  American Samoa, Guam, and Virgin Islands, along with 18 national non-profit        
  organizations.. A variety of organizational arrangements are used to administer    
  the SCSEP projects. Many of the grantees have contractual relationships and        
  agreements with local government and non-profit organizations. In many cases       
  the SCSEP program is operated by the state aging agency and within sub-state       
  areas by area agencies on aging. Some of the national grantee organizations        
  administer the SCSEP local projects directly through their affiliates, while others
  sub-grant funds to local agencies. Most of the projects operated under the         
  auspices of the SCSEP provide service through host agencies to the community       
  at large or to the elderly community. Some of the activities have included         
  transportation for the elderly, serving the community as librarians, teachers'     
  aides, nutritional aides, etc. The ultimate goal of the program is to place        
  participants into unsubsidized employment and foster economic self-sufficiency.    
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  The Department annually renews grant agreements. The Department may have           
  an open competition from time to time to select national grantees. National        
  grants were competed in 2003 and 2006. The next competition opportunity, as        
  specified in the authorizing legislation, will be in 2011. When such a             
  competition occurs, a notice will be published in the Federal Register.            
                                                                                     
17.245 TRADE ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE                                                   
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:

                                                                                     
  EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF

                                                                                     
  LABOR

                                                                                     
AUTHORIZATION:

                                                                                     
  Trade Act of 1974, Title II, Public Law 93-618, 88 Stat. 1979, 19 U.S.C. 2271-

                                                                                     
  2322, as amended; Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1981, Title XXV,

                                                                                     
  Public Law 97-35, as amended; Miscellaneous Revenue Act of 1983, Public

                                                                                     
  Law 97-362, as amended; Amendment to the International Coffee Agreement

                                                                                     
  Act of 1980, Public Law 98-120, as amended; Deficit Reduction Act of 1984,

                                                                                     
  Public Law 98-369, as amended, Public Law 99-190; Third Continuing

                                                                                     
  Resolution for Fiscal Year 1986 Funds, as amended; Consolidated Omnibus

                                                                                     
  Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985, Title XIII, Public Law 99-272; Omnibus          
  Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988, Title I, Public Law 100-418; North          
  American Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act, Title V, Public Law 103-         
  182; Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2000, Public Law 106-113; Trade Act        
  of 2002, Title I-II, Public Law 107-210.                                           
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To provide adjustment assistance to qualified workers adversely affected by        
  foreign trade which will assist them to obtain suitable employment.                
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

                                                                                     
  State Workforce Agencies (SWAs) serve as agents of the United States for

                                                                                     
  administering the worker adjustment assistance benefit provisions of the Trade

                                                                                     
  Act. SWAs, through the local offices, provide testing, counseling, and job

                                                                                     
  placement services; job search and relocation assistance; training; and payment

                                                                                     
  of weekly trade readjustment allowances (TRA). State unemployment

                                                                                     
  compensation and extended benefits must be exhausted before TRA is paid to

                                                                                     
  eligible claimants. Trade impacted workers are eligible to receive job search and

                                                                                     
  relocation allowances in addition to the costs of training. They may be paid

                                                                                     


                                                                                11-08
  subsistence and transportation allowances to attend approved training outside
  the normal commuting distance of a worker's regular place of residence.
Applicant Eligibility:
  A petition for Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) may be filed by a group of
  adversely affected workers and be signed by at least three workers; alternatively,
  a petition may be filed by a company official, one-stop operators or one-stop
  partners, including State employment security agencies or the State dislocated
  worker unit, union representative, or other authorized representatives, requiring
  only one signature. After receiving a TAA petition, Division of Trade
  Adjustment Assistance (DTAA) investigators will establish if the workers'
  company produces a product and that a required minimum of the workforce has
  been laid off in the 12 months preceding the date of the petition or is threatened
  with layoffs (3 workers in groups of fewer than 50, 5 percent of the workforce in
  groups of 50 or more, or at least 50 workers in groups of 1000 or more).
  Additionally, DTAA will analyze facts contributing to the workers' layoffs or
  work reductions in order to determine one of the following sets of conditions
  have been met: (1) Increased imports contributed importantly to an actual
  decline in sales or production and to a layoff or threat of a layoff; or (2) There
  has been a shift in production to certain countries which contributed to a layoff
  or threat of a layoff; or (3) there has been a shift in production outside of the
  United States and there has been or is likely to be an increase in the import of
  like or similar articles; or (4) loss of business as a supplier of component parts, a
  final assembler, or a finisher where workers were TAA certified and contributed
  importantly to an actual decline in sales or production, and to a layoff or threat
  of a layoff. In accordance with the requirement of Section 246 of the Trade
  Adjustment Assistance Reform Act of 2002, the Secretary implemented on
  August 6, 2003, the Alternative Trade Adjustment Assistance (ATAA) for Older
  Workers. A request for ATAA consideration is part of the TAA petition and is
  filed at the same time the TAA petition is filed. In order for the Department to
  certify a worker group eligible to apply for the ATAA, the petitioning worker
  group must be determined eligible to apply for TAA. The criteria that the
  Department must consider for ATAA certification are: (1) a significant number
  of workers in the firm must be 50 years of age or older, (2) whether the workers
  possess skills that are easily transferable in the local area, and (3) the
  competitive conditions within the workers' industry.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  A TAA beneficiary must: (1) be found by the Labor Department to have been
  adversely affected by increased imports or a shift in production to certain
  countries, (2) be certified by the Secretary of Labor as eligible to apply for
  adjustment assistance, and (3) meet the following individual requirements: (a)
  his or her unemployment or underemployment must have begun on or after the
  impact date specified in the Secretary's certification as the beginning of the
  import-impacted unemployment or underemployment; (b) his or her
  unemployment must begin before the expiration of the two-year period
  beginning on the date on which the Secretary issued the certification for his or
  her group or before the termination date, if any, specified in the certification. In
  addition, to be eligible for weekly trade readjustment allowance (TRA) payments
  he or she must: (1) have been employed with wages at a minimum of $30 per
  week by the import-affected firm for at least 26 of the previous 52 weeks
  including the week of total layoff (up to seven weeks of employer-authorized
  leave may be counted as qualifying weeks of employment or up to 26 weeks of
  disability compensation); and (2) be enrolled in or have completed a TAA
  approved job training program, unless the determination is made that training is
  either not feasible or not appropriate, in which case a waiver of the training
  requirement may be issued. To receive TRA, the claimant must be enrolled in an
  approved training program within eight weeks of the Secretary's issuance of the
  certification or within 16 weeks of the worker's most recent qualifying
  separation, whichever is later.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  To apply for TAA under the Trade Act of 1974, as amended, a "Petition for
  Trade Adjustment Assistance" must be filed directly with the Division of Trade
  Adjustment Assistance at the address listed below and with the State official or
  organization designated by the Governor of the State in which the workers' firm
  or subdivision is located. DTAA and State contact information, as well as
  petition forms in English and Spanish, are available through the State Workforce
  Agencies or from the Division of Trade Adjustment Assistance listed below. The
  Petition forms may also be downloaded from our web-site at:
  http:www.doleta.gov/tradeact. Filing a petition also constitutes an application
  for Alternative Trade Adjustment Assistance (ATAA). Petitions must be filed
  with both the DTAA and the State agency in which the worker group's plant is
  located. Notice of such filing shall be promptly published in the Federal
  Register. Within 10 days after publication, the petitioner or any other person
  found by the Secretary to have a substantial interest may request a hearing and
  be afforded the opportunity to be present, to present evidence, and to be heard.
Award Procedure:
  A Certification of Eligibility to apply for worker adjustment assistance and
                                                                                     641
