  alternative trade adjustment assistance may be issued by the Secretary of Labor    
  to groups of workers who have been found by the Department of Labor to have        
  met the requirements concerning foreign trade-affected separations from            
  employment. Individual workers covered by the certification can apply to the       
  local office of their State Workforce Agency for individual determinations of      
  eligibility to receive benefits.                                                   
Deadlines:                                                                           
  None.                                                                              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  For the TAA program, eligibility investigations begun by the receipt of a valid    
  petition are completed, and a determination issued, within 40 calendar days of     
  the receipt of the petition.                                                       
Appeals:                                                                             
  There are two courses of appeal, one administrative and the other judicial.        
  Petitioners aggrieved by a final determination by the Secretary may, within 30     
  days after notice of such determination is published in the Federal Register, file 
  an application for reconsideration with the Director of the Division of Trade      
  Adjustment Assistance. If the determination following reconsideration is           
  negative, they may, within 60 days after notice of the negative determination

  upon reconsideration, file a petition for review of such determination with the    
  United States Court of International Trade in New York City. Aggrieved

  petitioners may request judicial appeal without first seeking administrative       
  reconsideration, within 60 days after notice of such determination is published

  in the Federal Register.                                                           
Renewals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Base funding of grants to States for training services uses a formula based on     
  States' previous year allocations, accrued expenditures and participant levels;    
  additional funds may be requested by States based on additional needs above the    
  base funding provided.                                                             
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Cash trade readjustment allowances (TRA) become payable only after workers         
  have exhausted their entitlement to State unemployment compensation including      
  extended benefits. For TAA certifications on petitions filed on or after           
  November 4, 2002, the maximum number of weeks of State unemployment                
  compensation, extended benefits and trade readjustment allowances cannot           
  exceed 52 weeks except that up to 52 additional weeks may be paid to workers       
  while participating in approved training and an additional 26 weeks for workers    
  whose approved training program includes remedial education. Participation in      
  ATAA allows older workers, for whom retraining may not be appropriate, to          
  accept reemployment at a lower wage and receive a wage subsidy instead of          
  benefits under the regular TAA program. The ATAA allows for payments of 50         
  percent of the wage difference between old employment and new employment,          
  not to exceed $10,000 for up to two years. The individual must obtain              
  employment within 26 weeks of layoff, earn not more than $50,000 a year in         
  wages in reemployment, and must not return to employment from which the            
  worker was separated. Base formula funding grants for training services are        
  provided to States at the beginning of the year; additional funds may be           
  requested by States based on additional needs above the base funding provided.     
                                                                                     
Reports:

  Quarterly financial reports on grants for administration of TAA/TRA program        
  are required.                                                                      
Audits:                                                                              
  Subject to audits by the U.S. Department of Labor or other authorized              
  Government agencies. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No.         
  A-133 (Revised, June 27, 2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-      
  Profit Organizations, nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of      
  $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific        
  audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000  
  a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that       
  year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.                                       
Records:                                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Account Identification:                                                              
  16-0326-0-1-999.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (TAA Training Grants) FY 07 $260,000,000; FY 08 est $260,000,000; FY 09            
  est $260,000,000.                                                                  
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  Weekly allowance payments are the same as the amount of weekly State               
  unemployment compensation.                                                         
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  From April 1975 through September 2006, the Department of Labor issued             
  certifications in 35,549 cases involving 4,357,803 workers. (These figures are     
  continuously revised to account for actual experience and include both TAA and     
  NAFTA-TAA.)                                                                        
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  Regulations at 29 CFR 90, Certification of Eligibility to Apply for Worker         
  Adjustment Assistance, and 20 CFR 617, Trade Adjustment Assistance for             


642                                                                            11-08

  Workers.
Regional or Local Office:
  Regional offices of the Employment and Training Administration, Department
  of Labor listed in Appendix IV, and local offices of affiliated State Employment
  Security Agencies.
Headquarters Office:
  Ralph DiBattista, Director, Division of Trade Adjustment Assistance,
  Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor, 200
  Constitution Avenue, N.W., Room C-5311, Washington, DC 20210. Telephone:
  (202) 693- 3098.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.doleta.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  17.225, Unemployment Insurance.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
17.258 WIA ADULT PROGRAM
   (WIA-Adult Program)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF
  LABOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Workforce Investment Act of 1998 (WIA), Title I, Subtitle B, Chapter 5, Public
  Law 105-220, 20 U.S.C. 9201.
OBJECTIVES:
  The purpose of this program is to improve the quality of the workforce, reduce
  welfare dependency, and enhance the productivity and competitiveness of the
  nation's economy by providing workforce investment activities that increase the
  employment, retention, and earnings of participants, and increase occupational
  skill attainment by the participants. This program is designed to increase
  employment, as measured by entry into unsubsidized employment, retention in
  unsubsidized employment after entry into employment, and earnings. For cross-
  cutting goals, the program intends to enhance customer satisfaction for
  participants and for employers. The employment goals will be measured using
  Unemployment Insurance Wage Records systems and customer satisfaction
  goals will be measured by sampling.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The Act specifies that most services for adults will be provided through One
  Stop Career Centers. The Act authorizes three levels of service. which are
  available to all jobseekers. "Core" services include outreach, job search,
  placement assistance, and labor market information, and are available to all
  jobseekers. "Intensive" services include more comprehensive assessments,
  development of individual employment plans and counseling, and career
  planning, and are available to all those who could not find employment through
  core services. Those customers who cannot find employment through intensive
  services may receive "training" services linked to job opportunities in their
  communities, including both occupational training and training in basic skills.
  To promote customer choice and involvement in career decisions, participants
  use an "individual training account" to select an appropriate training program
  from a qualified training provider. The Act also authorizes the provision of
  supportive services (e.g., transportation and child care assistance) to enable an
  individual to participate in the program.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Under WIA, the organizations eligible to receive funding from the Department
  are the 50 States, Puerto Rico, the District of Columbia and the outlying areas.
  Funds are allotted based on a statutory formula. The states in turn allocate funds
  to local workforce investment boards (approximately 600), by formula.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  All adults 18 years and older are eligible for core services. Priority for intensive
  and training services must be given to recipients of public assistance and other
  low-income individuals where funds are limited. States and local areas are
  responsible for establishing procedures for applying the priority requirements.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Formula-funded programs are subject to Governor/Secretary Agreement and
  State Plan. States sign a grant document agreeing to comply with the Act and
  regulations for the formula-allotted program.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the state requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  state has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
