  The governor submits a single Strategic State Plan in accordance with one of the  
  Planning Guidances, either Stand-Alone or Unified, issued through the Federal     
  Register. The Planning Guidances provide detailed instruction on what must be     
  included in the State Plan. The Unified Planning Guidance provides a              
  framework for collaboration across programs and integration of services beyond    
  WIA Title I programs and Wagner-Peyser Activities, including non-DOL              
  programs and other ETA and non-ETA DOL programs. The plan is submitted to         
  the Federal Coordinator for Plan Review and Approval currently Janet Sten,        
  Division of Workforce System Support, Office of Workforce Investment,             
  Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor, 200                  
  Constitution Avenue, NW, Room S-4231, Washington, DC 20210.                       
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  Those portions of the State Plan over which the Assistant Secretary for

  Employment and Training exercises authority are reviewed and approved by the      
  Employment and Training Administration. Formula funds are awarded to the

  states based on a statutory formula provided in the authorizing legislation.      
Deadlines:

  Each State shall submit its State Plan on or before the date set by the Assistant 
  Secretary for Employment and Training. Contact headquarters office for an         
  application deadline date.                                                        
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  State plans will be reviewed in accordance with 20 CFR 661.220(e), which          
  provides that the Secretary must approve all state plans within 90 days of their  
  submission, unless the Secretary determines in writing that: (1) the State Plan is
  in consistent with the provisions of Title I of WIA or the WIA regulations,       
  including 29 CFR Part 37; or (2) the portion of the State Plan impacting the      
  Wagner-Peyser Act plan does not satisfy the criteria for approval in Section 8(d) 
  of the Wagner-Peyser Act or the Wagner-Peyser Act regulations at 20 CFR Part      
  652.                                                                              
                                                                                    
Appeals:

  Contact the Headquarters Office to obtain information on appeal procedures.       
Renewals:                                                                           
  None.                                                                             
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  Adult Activities funds are allocated to states under the formula described in the 
  Act, which includes three factors based on the distribution of unemployed         
  individuals and disadvantaged adults by State.                                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  Formula funds are allotted every year to a State in two portions during a program 
  year and are available for expenditure by the State for that program year and the 
  two succeeding program years.                                                     
Reports:                                                                            
  Financial and performance reporting requirements as specified by the Secretary    
  in accordance with 20 CFR 667.300.                                                
Audits:                                                                             
  Subject to audits by the Department of Labor or other authorized Government       
  agencies. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133             
  (Revised, June 27, 2003), Audits of states, local governments, and nonprofit      
  organizations, nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or
  more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted   
  for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in       
  Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except   
  as noted in Circular No. A-133.                                                   
Records:                                                                            
  States are required to maintain adequate records in accordance with 29 CFR 95     
  and 97.                                                                           
Account Identification:                                                             
  16-0174-0-1-504.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  (Formula Grants) FY 07 $864,000,000; FY 08 est $850,000,000; and FY 09 est        
  $712,000,000.                                                                     
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  None.                                                                             
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  The Program Year 2005 WIA Adult program served 1,052,611 participants. Of         
  those who exited the program, 134,005 entered employment. The entered             
  employment rate was 77 percent. Program accomplishments are published             
  annually and posted on the Internet at:                                           
  http://www.doleta.gov/performance/results/wia_national_performance.cfm. A         
  copy of the report may be obtained by writing to: Office of Workforce             
  Investment, Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor,          
  200 Constitution Avenue, N.W., Washington, DC 20210.                              
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  20 CFR Part 652 et al, WIA; Final Rules Federal Register, Friday, August 11,      
  2000.                                                                             
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  Contact appropriate Regional Employment and Training Office listed in             
  Appendix IV of the Catalog.                                                       
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Office of Workforce Investment, Employment and Training Administration,           


                                                                               11-08
  Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue, N.W., Washington, DC 20210.
  Contact: Christine Ollis, Division Chief, Adult Services, Room S-4209.
  Telephone: (202) 693-3046.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.doleta.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  17.207, Employment Service/Wagner-Peyser Funded Activities; 17.259, WIA
  Youth Activities; 17.260, WIA Dislocated Workers.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  None.
17.259 WIA YOUTH ACTIVITIES
   (WIA Formula Youth)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF
  LABOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Workforce Investment Act of 1998, Title I, Subtitle B, Chapter 4, Public Law
  105-220, 20 U.S.C. 9201.
OBJECTIVES:
  To help low income youth, between the ages of 14 and 21, acquire the
  educational and occupational skills, training, and support needed to achieve
  academic and employment success and successfully transition to careers and
  productive adulthood.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Title I of the Act authorizes the new Workforce Investment System and
  establishes state workforce investment boards with oversight responsibility by
  the governors for local workforce investment boards; and establishes the process
  by which eligible providers of training and youth activities are identified. The
  Act authorizes the use of funds for youth employment and training activities that
  will provide eligible youth assistance in achieving careers and academic and
  employment success; ensures ongoing mentoring opportunities; provides
  opportunities for training; provides continued supportive services; provides
  incentives for recognition and achievement; and provides opportunities for
  leadership, development, decision making, citizenship, and community service.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Under WIA,50 states, Puerto Rico, the District of Columbia, and the outlying
  areas are identified as the recipients of youth training activities funds. For a
  state to be eligible to receive youth funds, the governor of the state will submit to
  the Secretary for consideration by the Secretary, a single state plan that outlines
  a 5-year strategy for the statewide workforce investment system.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  An eligible youth is an individual who: (1) is 14 to 21 years of age; and (2) is an
  individual who received an income or is a member of a family that received a
  total family income that, in relation to family size, does not exceed the higher of
  (a) the poverty line; or (b) 70 percent of the lower living standard income; and
  (3) meets one or more of the following criteria: is an individual who is deficient
  in basic literacy skills; a school dropout; homeless; a runaway; a foster child;
  pregnant or a parent; an offender; or requires additional assistance to complete
  their education or secure and hold employment.
Credentials/Documentation:
  In order to establish a continuing relationship under the Act, the governor and
  the Secretary of Labor shall sign a governor/Secretary Agreement. This
  agreement assures that the State will comply with the Workforce Investment Act
  and the applicable rules and regulations.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to follow in applying for assistance, if the State
  has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  The governor submits a single Strategic State Plan in accordance with one of the
  Planning Guidances, either Stand-Alone or Unified, issued through the Federal
  Register. The Planning Guidance provide detailed instruction on what must be
  included in the State Plan. The Unified Planning Guidance provides a
  framework for collaboration across programs and integration of services beyond
  WIA Title I programs and Wagner-Peyser Activities, including non-DOL
  programs and other DOL programs. The plan is submitted to the Federal
  Coordinator for Plan Review and Approval (currently Janet Sten), Division of
  Workforce System Support, Office of Workforce Investment, Employment and
  Training Administration, Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue, NW,
  Room S-4231, Washington, DC 20210.
Award Procedure:
                                                                                     643
