  Those portions of the State Plan over which the Assistant Secretary for           
  Employment and Training exercises authority are reviewed and approved by the      
  Employment and Training Administration. Formula funds are awarded to the          
  states based on a statutory formula provided in the authorizing legislation.      
Deadlines:                                                                          
  Each State shall submit its plan on or before the date set by the Assistant       
  Secretary of the Employment and Training Administration. Contact                  
  Headquarters Office for an application deadline date.                             
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  A State plan submitted to the Secretary will be considered to be approved by the  
  Secretary at the end of the 90-day period beginning on the day the Secretary      
  received the plan, unless the Secretary makes a written determination, during the 
  90-day period, that the plan is inconsistent with the provisions of Title I.      
Appeals:                                                                            
  Contact Headquarters Office to obtain information on appeal procedures.           
Renewals:                                                                           
  None.                                                                             
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  Youth activities funds are allotted to states under the formula described in the  
  Act based on the distribution of unemployed individuals and disadvantaged         
  youth by state.                                                                   
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  Formula funds allotted to a State each year are available for expenditure by the  
  State for that program year plus two succeeding program years.                    
Reports:                                                                            
  Reporting requirements as specified by the Secretary in accordance with 20 CFR    
  667.300.                                                                          
Audits:                                                                             
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June        
  27, 2003), audits of states, local governments, and nonprofit organizations;      
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in       
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that  
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal        
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted  
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                            
Records:                                                                            
  States are required to maintain adequate records in accordance with 29 CFR 95     
  and 97.                                                                           
Account Identification:                                                             
  16-0174-0-1-504.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  FY 07 $929,000,000; FY 08 est. $861,000,000; and FY 09 est. $828,000,000.         
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  There is no established range; grant awards are based on formula allocation.      
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

                                                                                    
  None.

                                                                                    
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

                                                                                    
  20 CFR PART 652 et al, WIA; Final Rules Federal Register, Friday, August 11,

                                                                                    
  2000. Federal Register: Thursday, February 28, 2002 (Volume 67, Number 403)

                                                                                    
  "Solicitation of Comments on the Reauthorization of the Workforce Investment

                                                                                    
  Act (WIA) and Linkages with the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families

                                                                                    
  (TANF); Notice.

                                                                                    
Regional or Local Office:

                                                                                    
  Contact the appropriate Regional Employment and Training Office listed in

                                                                                    
  Appendix IV of the Catalog.

                                                                                    
Headquarters Office:

                                                                                    
  Office of Workforce Investment, Employment and Training Administration,

                                                                                    
  Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue, N.W., Washington, DC 20210.

                                                                                    
  Contact: Evan Rosenberg, Division of Youth Services. Telephone: (202) 693-

                                                                                    
  3593. Fax: (202) 693-3532.

                                                                                    
Web Site Address:

  http://www.doleta.gov.                                                            
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  17.207, Employment Service/Wagner-Peyser Funded Activities.                       
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  Not applicable.                                                                   
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                   
  Not applicable.                                                                   
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
17.260 WIA DISLOCATED WORKERS                                                       
      (WIA-Dislocated Workers)                                                      
                                                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     
  EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF                             
  LABOR                                                                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                      
  Workforce Investment Act of 1998, Title I, Subtitle B, Chapter 5, Public Law      
  105-220, 20 U.S.C. 9201.                                                          
OBJECTIVES:                                                                         
  The purpose of the program is to reemploy dislocated workers, improve the         


644                                                                           11-08

  quality of the workforce, and enhance the productivity and competitiveness of
  the nation's economy by providing workforce investment activities that increase
  the employment, retention, and earnings of participants, and increase
  occupational skill attainment by the participants. This program is designed to
  increase employment, as measured by entry into unsubsidized employment,
  retention in unsubsidized employment after entry into employment, and extent of
  recovery of prior earnings. For cross cutting goals, the program intends to
  enhance customer satisfaction for participants and for employers. The
  employment goals will be measured using Unemployment Insurance Wage
  Records systems and customer satisfaction goals will be measured by sampling.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants; Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The Act authorizes three levels of service. which are available to all job seekers.
  "Core" services include outreach, job search and placement assistance, and labor
  market information, and are available to all jobseekers. "Intensive" services
  include more comprehensive assessments, development of individual
  employment plans and counseling, and career planning, and are available to
  those who could not find employment through core services. Those customers
  who cannot find employment through intensive services may receive "training"
  services linked to job opportunities in their communities, including both
  occupational training and training in basic skills. To promote customer choice
  and involvement in career decisions, participants use an "individual training
  account" to select an appropriate training program from a qualified training
  provider. The Act also authorizes the provision of supportive services (e.g.,
  transportation and child care assistance) to enable an individual to participate in
  the program. National Eemergency Ggrants (NEGs) are used to provide targeted
  services to workers affected by mass layoffs, natural disasters, fFederal
  government actions, or other specific circumstances. Funds reserved by the
  Secretary are also used for technical assistance and training and demonstration
  programs.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Under WIA, the organizations eligible to receive formula-based funding from the
  Department are the 50 states, Puerto Rico, the District of Columbia, and the
  outlying areas. Funds are allotted based on a statutory formula and states in turn
  allocate funds to local workforce investment boards (approximately 600), by
  formula prescribed by the governor. Applicants for NEGs may be states,
  outlying areas, local workforce boards, and non-profit and private organizations
  whose purpose is to provide targeted services to eligible beneficiaries.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Individuals eligible for assistance through the applicants receiving the funds
  include workers who have lost their jobs, including those dislocated as a result
  of plant closings or mass layoffs, and are unlikely to return to their previous
  industry or occupation; formerly self-employed individuals; and displaced
  homemakers who have been dependent on income of another family member,
  but are no longer supported by that income. NEG Program has National
  Emergency Grants have identical eligibility to the above and also includes
  certain military personnel and defense employees. Services through NEGs are
  targeted on individuals affected by mass layoffs, natural disasters, fFederal
  government actions, and other circumstances specified by the Secretary.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Formula-funded programs are subject to governor/Secretary Agreement and
  State Plan. States sign a grant document agreeing to comply with the Act and
  regulations for the formula-allotted program.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her state for more information
  on the process the state requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  state has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  The governor submits a single Strategic State Plan in accordance with one of the
  Planning guidance, either Stand-Alone or Unified, issued through the Federal
  Register. The planning guidance provide detailed instruction on what must be
  included in the State Plan. The Unified Planning Guidance provides a
  framework for collaboration across programs and integration of services beyond
  WIA Title I programs and Wagner-Peyser Activities, including non-DOL
  programs and other DOLprograms. The plan is submitted to the Federal
  Coordinator for Plan Review and Approval, currently Janet Sten, Division of
  Workforce System Support, Office of Workforce Investment, Employment and
  Training Administration, Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue, NW,
  Room S-4231, Washington, DC 20210. Application for National Emergency
  Grant funds is made through a governor's or other authorized applicant's
  submission of a proposal in accordance with guidelines issued by the Secretary
  of Labor. Please see http://www.doleta.gov/neg/apply_neg.cfm for a description.
Award Procedure:
  Formula Funds: Those portions of the State Plan over which the Assistant
  Secretary for Employment and Training exercises authority are reviewed and
  approved by the Employment and Training Administration. Formula funds are
  awarded to the states based on a statutory formula provided in the authorizing
