  legislation. NEGs: Submitted applications are reviewed by the Assistant           
  Secretary for the Employment and Training Administration and approved by the      
  Secretary of Labor.                                                               
Deadlines:                                                                          
  Each state shall submit its State Plan on or before the date set by the Assistant 
  Secretary for Employment and Training. Contact Headquarters Office for an         
  application deadline date.                                                        
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  State plans will be reviewed in accordance with 20 CFR 661.220(e), which          
  provides that the Secretary must approve all state plans within 90 days of their  
  submission, unless the Secretary determines in writing that: (1) the state plan is
  inconsistent with the provisions of Title I of WIA or the WIA regulations,        
  including 29 CFR Part 37; or (2) the portion of the state plan impacting the      
  Wagner-Peyser Act plan does not satisfy the criteria for approval in section 8(d) 
  of the Wagner-Peyser Act or the Wagner-Peyser Act regulations at 20 CFR Part

  652.

                                                                                    
Appeals:

  Contact the Headquarters Office listed below to obtain information on appeal      
  procedures.                                                                       
Renewals:                                                                           
  None.                                                                             
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  Formula funds are allotted to states under a statutory formula based on the       
  distribution of unemployed individuals by state in three categories of            
  unemployment There are no matching requirements.                                  
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  Formula funds are allotted to states under a statutory formula based on the       
  distribution of unemployed individuals by state in three categories of            
  unemployment. There are no matching requirements.                                 
Reports:                                                                            
  Financial and performance reporting requirements as specified by the Secretary    
  in accordance with 20 CFR 667.300.                                                
Audits:                                                                             
  Subject to audits by the Department of Labor or other authorized Government       
  agencies. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133             
  (Revised, June 27, 2003), Audits of states, local governments, and non-profit     
  organizations, nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or
  more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted   
  for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in       
  Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except   
  as noted in Circular No. A-133.                                                   
Records:                                                                            
  States are required to maintain adequate records in accordance with 29 CFR 95     
  and 97.                                                                           
Account Identification:                                                             
  16-0174-0-1-504.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  (Formula Grants) FY 07 $1,190,000,000; FY 08 est $1,151,000,000; and FY 09        
  est $1,065,000,000 (NEGs) FY 07 $117,000,000; FY 08 est $100,000,000; and         
  FY 09 est $93,000,000.                                                            
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  None.                                                                             
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  Formula program: The WIA Dislocated Worker program served 306,968                 
  participants. Of those who exited the program, 120,433 entered employment.        
  The entered employment rate was 83.2 percent. Program accomplishments are         
  published annually and posted on the Internet at:                                 
  http://www.doleta.gov/performance/results/wia_national_performance.cfm. A         
  copy of the report may be obtained by writing to: Employment and Training         
  Administration, Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue, N.W.,               
  Washington, DC 20210.                                                             
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  20 CFR 652 et al., Federal Register of August 2000.                               
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  Contact appropriate Regional Employment and Training Office listed in             
  Appendix IV of the Catalog.                                                       
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor, 200                  
  Constitution Avenue, N.W., Washington, DC 20210. Contact: Christine Ollis,        
  Division Chief, Adult Services, Office of Workforce Investment, Room S-4209.      
  Telephone: (202) 693-3046.                                                        
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  http://www.doleta.gov.

                                                                                    
RELATED PROGRAMS:

                                                                                    
  17.207, Employment Service/Wagner-Peyser Funded Activities; 17.245 Trade

                                                                                    
  Adjustment Assistance; 17.258, WIA Adult Program; 17.259, WIA Youth

                                                                                    
  Activities.

                                                                                    
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  Formula funds: not applicable. National Emergency Grants: (1) Louisiana

                                                                                    
  Department of Employment and Training, $40,700,000, to hire individuals           


                                                                               11-08
  impacted by Hurricane Katrina in temporary jobs that: (a) worked on projects
  providing food, clothing, shelter and other humanitarian assistance for disaster
  victims; (b) provide manpower to help the affected communities with
  demolition, cleaning, repair, renovation, and reconstruction of damaged or
  destroyed public structures, facilities and lands located within the disaster areas.
  (2) Massachusetts Department of Workforce Development, $2,890,474, for
  layoffs affecting approximately 1200 workers at Fleet Bank/Bank of America.
  (3) District of Columbia Department of Employment Services, $950,000, to
  respond to the workforce development needs of employers, communities, and
  workers resulting from scheduled closures and realignments of military
  installations as a result of the approved actions for Base Realignment and
  Closing (BRAC) in 2005.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
17.261 WIA PILOTS, DEMONSTRATIONS, AND
RESEARCH PROJECTS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF
  LABOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Workforce Investment Act of 1998, Title I, Subtitle D, Section 171, Public Law
  105-220.
OBJECTIVES:
  Address national employment and training problems through demonstration,
  pilot projects, and applied research. Employment and training issues and/or
  workforce development interventions are implemented to aid policymakers and
  stakeholders in addressing these problems and evaluating program efficiencies.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Projects shall include the provision of direct services to individuals to enhance
  employment opportunities and an evaluation component and may include (1)
  building a demand driven workforce investment system; (2) building the
  capacity of workers to obtain good jobs with good wages; (3) focusing on key
  segments of the workforce; (4) building a comprehensive workforce system
  through new regional economic strategic approaches; and (5) evaluating
  program effectiveness.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State and local governments, Federal agencies, private non-profit and for-profit
  organizations, including faith-based and community-based organizations, and
  educational institutions. Note: Applicant eligibility may be restricted to one or
  more applicant classes under the particular announcement or solicitation.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Generally limited to the economically disadvantaged and those who are
  underemployed, unemployed, need to upgrade their skills in order to retain jobs,
  at-risk youth, and/or to those who evidence barriers to employability.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Non-governmental entities ordinarily must furnish documentary evidence of
  adequate financial controls, organizational capacity to undertake the project, and
  qualified key personnel among other credentials described in the particular
  announcement or solicitation.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None except as specified in solicitations. This program is excluded from
  coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Grants for projects are awarded on a competitive basis, announced in a
  Solicitation for Grant Applications (SGA) in the Federal Register and also on
  ETA's Web site at http://www.doleta.gov. To compete for a grant, organizations
  develop a proposal and budget that demonstrate how the organization will
  address the criteria of the particular announcement or solicitation. The SGA
  provides all of the necessary information for applying for Federal assistance.
Award Procedure:
  Procedures for each project are specified in the applicable SGA. Generally, the
  procedure is as follows: A technical review panel composed of staff from ETA
  program offices as well as peer reviewers evaluates eligible submitted
  applications. The panel prepares a report for the ETA Grant Officer identifying
  the strengths and weaknesses of the application and the cumulative rating. Once
  selections are made by the Grant Officer, an Award Notification is sent through
  the appropriate congressional channels for notification. After awardees are
  notified, the list of awardees is posted on the ETA Web site at www.doleta.gov.
  If an application is rejected, a letter is sent to the applicant.
Deadlines:
  Specified in the applicable SGA, but generally 45 to 60 days from
  announcement date.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 45 to 90 days.
Appeals:
  Procedures for each project are specified in the applicable SGA.
                                                                                     645
