Renewals:                                                                            
  Project extensions available upon approval by the Grant Officer (renewals are      
  not automatic). Requests for extensions or renewals must be submitted in           
  writing.                                                                           
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  In certain instances for particular solicitations or groups of awards, matching or 
  leveraging requirements may be imposed because of statutory requirements           
  and/or administrative decisions.                                                   
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Most projects last one to two years.                                               
Reports:                                                                             
  At a minimum, progress and financial reports are required on a quarterly basis     
  as well as a final project report. Additional requirements are included in the SGA 
  or grant package.                                                                  
Audits:                                                                              
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised June          
  27, 2003) Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations,       
  nonfederal entities that receive financial assistance of $500,000 or more in       
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that   
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal         
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted   
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                             
Records:                                                                             
  Recipients are required to maintain books, records, documents and other            
  evidence of accounting procedures and practices sufficient to reflect properly all 
  direct and indirect costs of whatever nature claimed to have been incurred for     
  the performance of the grant. Records are to be retained for three years from the  
  date of final payment unless the grant officer authorizes earlier disposal.        
Account Identification:                                                              
  16-0174-0-1-504.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Project Grants) FY 07 $26,000,000; FY 08 est $40,000,000; and FY 09 est           
  $17,000,000.                                                                       
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  $100,000 to $1.75 million.                                                         
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

                                                                                     
  In fiscal year 2006, approximately 26 new pilot and demonstration projects or

                                                                                     
  major modifications of existing projects were initiated.

                                                                                     
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

                                                                                     
  Notices of SGAs are published periodically in the Federal Register on the ETA

                                                                                     
  Web site at www.doleta.gov.

                                                                                     
Regional or Local Office:

                                                                                     
  Contact the nearest Employment and Training Administration Regional Office

                                                                                     
  listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.

                                                                                     
Headquarters Office:

  Office of Grants and Contract Management, Office of Financial and                  
  Administrative Management, Employment and Training Administration,                 
  Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Ave., N.W., Room N-4716, Washington,         
  DC 20210. Contact: James DeLuca, Telephone: (202) 693-3754, E-mail:                
  DeLuca.James@dol.gov.                                                              
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.doleta.gov .                                                            
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  None.                                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  In PY 2006, ETA maintained oversight and continued support of on-going             
  multi-year studies such as Project Gate, a large scale demonstration testing the   
  impact of micro-enterprise assistance as a workforce development tool. ETA         
  continues large-scale cooperative research efforts with the Departments of         
  Housing and Urban Development (HUD), and Health and Human Services                 
  (HHS) addressing the needs of low wage workers. In PY 2006, ETA initiated          
  projects to carry out its goal of building a demand-driven system. These

  projects support the President's High Growth Job Training Initiative (HGJTI),      
  the Community Board Job Training grants (CBJTG), and the Workforce

  Innovation in Regional Economic Development (WIRED) initiative. These              
                                                                                     
  efforts draw on public-private partnerships. Other new research efforts in FY

                                                                                     
  2006 focused on existing and emerging target groups such as migrant and

  seasonal farm workers, people with limited English proficiency, women, ex-         
                                                                                     
  offenders reentering their communities through the President's Reentry Initiative

                                                                                     
  (PRI), and workers seeking to start their own businesses. Many of these

                                                                                     
  activities make use of partnerships among federal agencies, state and local

                                                                                     
  agencies, and research institutions. These efforts help to increase the cost

                                                                                     
  effectiveness of projects by making use of administrative data for research and

                                                                                     
  evaluations of ETA programs. Offer training to approximately 100 individuals

                                                                                     
  (30 incumbent workers, 70 new students) that can lead to professional

                                                                                     
  certification and/or an Associate's degree in automotive services; a $ 900,000

                                                                                     
  grant to a community college to develop a blended training delivery model

                                                                                     
  accessible to any automotive and collision program across the nation interested    
  in becoming certified by the National Automotive Technicians Education             
  Foundation (NATEF); a $ 200,000 grant to a not-for-profit organization to offer    


646                                                                            11-08

  resources and hands-on opportunities to build girls' knowledge of and skills in
  car maintenance; a $ 300,000 grant to identify and certify more automotive
  service technicians by translating eight certification exams into Spanish and by
  having these exams administered throughout the country; a $ 95,000 grant to an
  industry association to educate, train, and employ new automotive service
  technicians through work-based training opportunities, or on-the-job
  mentor/intern programs; a $ 1,496,680 grant to a community college to develop
  curriculum based on a new set of NATEF standards for an entry-level General
  Service Technician (GST) and train approximately 175 automotive service
  technicians adapting the new curriculum; a $ 136,000 grant to a not-for-profit
  organization to develop a career-lattice model for automotive service technicians
  and match it to a coaching approach that includes one-on-one mentoring and
  follow-up mentoring via e-mail; a $ 250,000 grant to a state workforce
  investment board to engage the state education system and the biotech business
  community to enhance youth participation in life sciences; a $ 5,000,000 grant
  to a consortium of community colleges to develop a National Center for a
  Biotechnology Workforce with 5 participating community colleges to identify
  industry skill needs and to develop skill standards and training for five different
  biotech sectors: Biotech R&D, Biomanufacturing, Agriculture and Food
  Processing, Bioinformatics and Bioprocesing; a $ 1,372,250 grant to a not-for-
  profit industry education foundation to stimulate the life sciences workshop
  pipeline at the high school level by developing and launching a demo model of
  the BioCareer Lab in 25 urban and high-need public schools; a $ 2,510,117
  grant to a local workforce investment system to create a clearinghouse for local
  and national biotechnology labor market and to coordinate student internships
  (from high-school to post-doctoral levels) and teacher externships for the
  regional biotechnology community; a $ 235,500 grant to an industry association
  to work
  with its partners to sustain existing construction career academies in
  Chattanooga and San Antonio, and will develop additional career academies in
  eight local communities; a $ 2,092,343 grant to a not-for-profit organization to
  launch an outreach campaign to attract women into the construction industry; a
  $ 1,400,000 grant to a community college to create a Construction Academy that
  provides high school students with an array of construction-specific courses and
  career opportunities in the construction industry; a $ 2,187,1078 grant to a labor
  management organization to train and license high school instructors in skill
  standard certifications so that they can teach and certify students in advanced
  manufacturing and construction skills; a $ 4,268,454 grant to an industry
  association to create a systemic approach to construction industry workforce
  development that provides a continuum of recruitment, career exploration,
  education, and training, beginning with middle and high school and continuing
  through post-secondary education and life-long learning; a $ 2,000,000 grant to
  community college to develop a career and education advancement ladder and
  user-focused curriculum for the land records management and utilities'
  geospatial technology applications; a $ 1,000,000 grant to a not-for-profit
  organization to establish a geospatial technology education and awareness
  initiative to develop and delivr learning resources like video programming and
  live web casts, provide professional development services, and integrate
  geospatial concepts into existing programming and ETA's Career Voyages web-
  site; a $ 187,939 grant to a community college to assess local geospatial
  workforce needs and use the findings to develop new and innovative curriculum
  and career ladder workforce development systems for a cross-section of
  industries; a $990,125 grant to a training insititution to establish a Geospatial
  Technology education training center to support workforce applications; a $
  2,599,979 grant to a community college to develop a system of resources that
  not only addresses workforce development needs, but also promotes growth of
  existing businesses, especially small and medium business sector, as well as new
  business development -- all within identified targeted industries.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Criteria for each proposal are specified in the applicable SGA.
17.264 NATIONAL FARMWORKER JOBS PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF
  LABOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Workforce Investment Act of 1998; Title I, Subtitle D, Section 167; Public Law
  105-220.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide job training and other employability development services and
  related assistance for those individuals, including their dependents, who are
  primarily employed in agricultural labor that is characterized by chronic
  unemployment and underemployment.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  In the National Farmworker Jobs Program (NFJP), eligible seasonal farmworkers
  and their dependents may be offered core services (including initial assessment,
  One-Stop Center services, job placement, and eligibility determination) intensive
