  services developed under a case management system (such as objective                
  assessment, individual employment planning, basic education, allowance              
  payments, dropout assistance, and work experience) training services (such as       
  classroom training that is occupationally specific and on the job training), and    
  related assistance (such as emergency assistance and other supportive services      
  that allow a farmworker to stay employed or continue his or her participation in    
  program activities).                                                                
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Public agencies and units of government (State and local); and private non-profit   
  institutions/organizations authorized by their charters or articles of incorporation
  to operate employment and training programs.                                        
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  The ultimate beneficiaries are low income individuals and their dependents who      
  have, during any consecutive 12-month period in the 24 months preceding their       
  application for enrollment, been primarily employed in agricultural labor that is   
  characterized by chronic unemployment or under employment due to the                
  seasonal or migratory nature of the work. Individuals must also be legally          
  available for work and males must not have violated the Selective Service Act       
  registration requirement.                                                           
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Applicants must be able to demonstrate an understanding of the problems of          
  seasonal farmworkers and the capacity to respond to their needs, a familiarity      
  with the local agricultural industry, and the administrative capacity to administer 
  workforce investment programs, including their capacity to be an effective One      
  Stop system partner.                                                                
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  The standard preapplication forms as furnished by the Federal agency and            
  required by OMB Circular No. A-102 must be used for this program. This              
  program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review        
  of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official            
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information  
  on the process the state requires to be followed in applying for assistance if the  
  state has selected the program for review.                                          
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Grants for operating NFJP programs are awarded under a biennial competitive         
  process. Applications are solicited, normally for each state's service area,        
  through a Solicitation for Grant Applications (SGA) announcement published in       
                                                                                      
  the Federal Register and on ETA's Web site, www.doleta.gov. Applicants may

                                                                                      
  be required under the solicitation to provide their proposed plan to operate NFJP

                                                                                      
  services in the areas where they propose to operate. A separate program is

                                                                                      
  funded to serve the geographic area of each State, except as follows: more than

                                                                                      
  one applicant may be selected to serve areas within California and some service

                                                                                      
  areas comprise the geography of two adjoining states. (A provision for waiver of

                                                                                      
  competition for a maximum four-year period may be exercised by the

                                                                                      
  Department).

                                                                                      
Award Procedure:

  Competing applications will be rated according to criteria included in the          
  Solicitation for Grant Application. Awards are made directly to eligible            
                                                                                      
  applicants by the Employment and Training Administration.

                                                                                      
Deadlines:

  Contact the headquarters for application deadlines.                                 
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

  Thirty to ninety days.                                                              
Appeals:                                                                              
  Petition for reconsideration of non-selection as a potential grantee may be made

  to an Administrative Law Judge within 21 days of notification of the                
  Department's decision.                                                              
Renewals:                                                                             
  Grants may be renewed without further competition for a third and fourth year       
  provided performance for the first two years has been satisfactory.                 
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  A formula is used to distribute funding by state service area based on estimates    
  of each state's share of the nation's eligible seasonal farmworkers. The formula    
  relies primarily on data from the Census of Agriculture and the National            
  Agricultural Workers Survey. This program has no matching requirements.             
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Awards initially apply for one or two years, with the option of a subsequent two-   
  year renewal if performance is satisfactory and a national competition is not       
  held.                                                                               
Reports:                                                                              
  Grantee recipients are required to provide quarterly program and financial status   
  reports and quarterly reporting of individual participant information. Program      
  performance is calculated from quarterly reporting of individual participant        
  information.                                                                        
Audits:                                                                               
  Programs are subject to financial and compliance audits conducted by the Office     
  of Inspector General (OIG). In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular       
  No. A-133 (Revised, June 27, 2003), "Audits of states, local governments, and       
  non-profit organizations," nonfederal entities that receive financial assistance of 
  $500,000 or more in Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific        


                                                                                 11-08
  audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000
  a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that
  year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Grantees are required to maintain complete accounting, personnel, and
  individual participant records in accordance with OMB Circulars A-102 and A-
  110. Participant records must support eligibility and the need for services
  provided.
Account Identification:
  16-0174-0-1-504.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $80,000,000; FY 08 est $80,000,000; and FY 09 est $0.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Grants may range between $100,000 and $7,000,000. The average is not
  calculated.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In Program Year (PY) 2005, an estimated 16,907 farmworkers received job
  training and supportive services. Of those who were provided intensive and job
  training services, 81 percent were placed in jobs with an average annual wage
  gain of $6,754 above the level earned prior to participation in the NFJP. Under
  the competition for the PY 2005, beginning July 1, 2005, there were 68
  applications from which 53 grants were awarded. (The most recent prior
  competition was for the PY 2003.)
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  20 CFR 669.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Division of Adult Services, Office of Workforce Investment, Employment and
  Training Administration, Department of Labor, Room S-4209, 200 Constitution
  Avenue, N.W., Washington, DC 20210. Telephone: (202) 693-3046. Fax: (202)
  693-3945.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.doleta.gov/msfw/.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  17.258, WIA Adult Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Projects assist farmworkers to complete educational goals and learn specific job
  skills in order to acquire the qualifications employers require for occupations
  offering permanent full-time employment, or to advance into other, more stable
  agricultural employment. This is accomplished through a case management-
  driven system that uses customer choice to guide the farmworker customer in the
  development of a strategy for acquiring the job skills and related education that
  are needed to qualify for higher-skilled jobs, and consequently the opportunity
  for earning a better livelihood. Projects also assist farmworkers seeking to
  remain in farmwork by providing emergency assistance and other supportive
  services that promote their continued participation in the agricultural workforce.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Selection criteria are described in the Solicitation for Grant Application
  published in the Federal Register whenever there is a competition for grant
  awards. (Also, see paragraph 92, above.).
17.265 NATIVE AMERICAN EMPLOYMENT AND
TRAINING
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF
  LABOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Workforce Investment Act of 1998, Title I, Subtitle D, Section 166 and Subtitle
  B, Chapter 2; Public Law 105-220; 112 Stat. 936; 29 U.S.C. 2801 et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  To support employment and training activities for Indian, Alaska Native, and
  Native Hawaiian individuals in order: to develop more fully the academic,
  occupational, and literacy skills of such individuals; to make such individuals
  more competitive in the workforce; and to promote the economic and social
  development of Indian, Alaska Native, and Native Hawaiian communities in
  accordance with the goals and values of such communities. Supplemental youth
  funding is also awarded to help low income Native American youth and Native
  Hawaiian youth, between the ages of 14 and 21, acquire the educational skills,
  training and the support needed to achieve academic and employment success
  and successfully transition to careers and productive adulthood.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds may be utilized for employment and training programs and services,
  including classroom training, on the job training, training assistance, work
  experience, youth employment programs, day care, health care, job search,
  relocation, and transportation allowances designed to assist eligible participants
  to obtain employment. There are specified restrictions on the amount of grant
                                                                                   647
