  funds which can be used for administrative costs. Supplemental youth funds         
  may be utilized to provide employment and training activities that assist youth in 
  achieving academic and employment success. Such activities may include;            
  mentoring, career exploration, work experience, community service, education       
  programs including cultural education, leadership development and supportive       
  services. Funds are restricted to Native American youth and Native Hawaiian        
  youth between the ages of 14 and 21 living on or near reservations and the States  
  of Oklahoma, Hawaii, and Alaska. Administrative costs are limited to 15% but       
  are negotiable up to 20% upon prior agency approval.                               
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Federally-recognized Indian Tribal Governments, bands or groups, Alaska            
  Native villages or groups (as defined in the Alaska Native Claims Settlement       
  Act, 43 U.S.C. 1602(b)), Hawaiian Native communities meeting the eligibility       
  criteria, and Native American Organizations (public bodies or private nonprofit    
  agencies) selected by the Secretary on a competitive basis. Tribes, bands, and     
  groups may also form consortia in order to qualify for designation as a grantee.   
  An independently eligible grantee shall be a Federally-recognized tribe or other   
  Indian or Native American entity which has: (1) A governing body as defined in     
  20 CFR 668.200(a); (2) (for new grantees) an identifiable Native American          
  resident population sufficient to generate the funding level(s) outlined at 20 CFR 
  668.200(a)(3) within its designated service area; and (3) the capability to        
  administer Indian and Native American employment and training programs as          
  outlined at 20 CFR 668.220. Detailed requirements for consortium grantee           
  applicants are set forth at 20 CFR 668.200(b). Supplemental funding is             
  automatically awarded to entities that serve Native American youth and Native      
  Hawaiian youth living on or near reservations, and the States of Oklahoma,         
  Hawaii, and Alaska.                                                                
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  American Indians (members of federally- recognized Indian tribes, bands, and       
  groups); other individuals of Native American descent, such as, but not limited    
  to, the Klamaths in Oregon, Micmac and Maliseet in Maine, the Lumbees in           
  North Carolina and South Carolina; Indians variously described as terminated or    
  landless, Eskimos and Aleuts in Alaska, and Hawaiian Natives. ("Hawaiian           
  Native" means an individual any of whose ancestors were natives prior to 1778      
  of the area which now comprises the State of Hawaii.) Applicants must also be      
  economically disadvantaged, unemployed, or underemployed. A Native                 
  American grantee may in some cases enroll participants who are not                 
  economically disadvantaged, unemployed, or underemployed in upgrading and          
  retraining programs. See 20 CFR 668.300(b)(4) and (5). Native American             
  youth between the ages of 14 and 21 who live on or near a reservation or in the    
  States of Oklahoma, Alaska, and Hawaii and are low income, are eligible to         
  receive supplemental youth services.                                               
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  An entity requesting to apply for a grant must submit a notification of intent to  
  apply biennially. Consortium applicants must include a formal consortium           
  agreement with attachments specified in 20 CFR 668.200. A Comprehensive            
  Services Plan is to be submitted by the designated grantees. It will include,      
  among other things: (1) a program narrative description; (2) a planning            
  summary; and (3) a brief budget summary. Individuals requesting services           
  through this grant must provide documentation of Native American Descent           
  such and Certificate Degree of Indian Blood (CDIB). Individuals must also          
  provide documentation that they are low income or unemployed, or working           
  part-time but are seeking full-time work or employed in a job that is not          
  commensurate with the individual's demonstrated level of education or skill        
  achievement. Males eligible for Selective Service must provide proof of            
                                                                                     
  registration. Youth receiving services under the Supplemental Youth Services

                                                                                     
  Program (SYSP) must be low income and be between the age of 14 and 21.

                                                                                     
Preapplication Coordination:

  The standard application forms (SF-424) as furnished by the Federal agency         
                                                                                     
  must be used for this program. This program is excluded from coverage under

                                                                                     
  E.O. 12372.

                                                                                     
Application Procedure:

  The Employment and Training Administration publishes a Solicitation for Grant      
  Application (SGA) in the Federal Register every two years. The SGA provides        
  the application and award process for interested entities to apply for funding to  
  serve specified geographic areas. The latest SGA was published in the Federal      
  Register on February 13, 2006, and can be found on the Internet at:                
  http://www.doleta.gov/dinap/cfml/docs/CompetitionWaivers.cfm. After                
  prospective grantees have filed a notice of intent, and new applicants have        
  additionally provided the information cited in 20 CFR 668.240, designation         
  decisions are made. Subsequently, designated grantees must submit a                
  Comprehensive Services Plan to the Employment and Training Administration,         
                                                                                     
  Office of Workforce Investment, Indian and Native American Programs (INAP),

                                                                                     
  Department of Labor. In addition, grantees must describe the administrative,

                                                                                     
  planning, and operational elements needed to implement a WIA Section 166

                                                                                     
  program. Instructions for completing these documents are issued by the

                                                                                     
  Employment and Training Administration through a Training and Employment

                                                                                     
  Guidance Letter (TEGL).

                                                                                     
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Grants will be made directly to eligible grantees for their service areas.

648                                                                            11-08

Deadlines:
  Notices of intent to apply for a grant are due by October 1 of every odd-
  numbered year. Designation decisions are made by March 1 of the following
  even-numbered year. Submission of the Comprehensive Services Plan generally
  occurs in mid-March or April, after designated grantees have been notified of
  their approximate allocation amount.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 30 to 90 days.
Appeals:
  Applicants will be notified of approval or disapproval of the Comprehensive
  Services Plan and if disapproved, given a reasonable time to make adjustments
  and resubmit the Plan. Final disapproval of an application or plan submitted by a
  designated grantee will not be made without affording the grantee an opportunity
  for reconsideration.
Renewals:
  Grant awards may be renewed annually, while designation as a grantee applies
  for two years.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no matching requirements. All of WIA Section 166 funds are
  distributed by formula codified at 20 CFR 668.296 based on the number of
  unemployed Indians and other Native Americans within the grantee's geographic
  service area and the number of members of Indian and other Native American
  households whose income is at or below the poverty level, within the grantee's
  geographic service area. Supplemental Youth Services funding is similarly
  distributed to grant recipients based on the number of Native American youth
  between the ages of 14 and 21 living in poverty on reservation areas or the States
  of Oklahoma, Alaska, or Hawaii, in the grant recipient's designated service area.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Funds are made available through annual program year grants. The program year
  runs from July 1 to June 30, except that the Supplemental Youth Services
  Program runs from April 1 to March 31. Funds obligated for any program year
  may be expended by each recipient during the program year and the two
  succeeding program years.
Reports:
  Grant recipients must submit quarterly financial reports and quarterly participant
  reports to the Employment and Training Administration.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, (Rev. June 27,
  2003) "Audits of states, local governments, and nonprofit organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that receive financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards in a year will have a single or program specific audit conducted
  for that year. Nonfederal entities which receive less than $500,000 a year in
  Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except
  as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records and all other
  pertinent records shall normally be retained for a period of three years after the
  grant is closed out. Participant records shall be retained for five years. Records
  must be retained longer in certain cases, such as when audit findings have not
  been resolved.
Account Identification:
  16-0174-0-1-504.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $69,000,000; FY 08 est $67,000,000; FY 09 est $58,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  CSP (Adult Program) $15,071 to $5,951,298. Average: $296,660 (PY 06 actual
  average). SYSP (Youth Program) $2,415 to $2,904,164. Average: $102,228 (PY
  06 actual average).
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In Program Year 2005 (July 1, 2005 - June 30, 2006), the Section 166 Indian
  and Native American (INA) program assisted 17,115 low income and
  unemployed Native Americans with occupational skills training, employment
  related training, and other employment related services. Of the 17,115
  individuals that participated in the program, 12,539 participants exited the
  program after completing training or receiving an employment related service.
  Of the 12,539 exiters: 7,143 (57.0 percent) were placed in jobs. 10,834 (86.4
  percent) recorded a positive exit, meaning that they were placed in jobs,
  successfully completed their training, or entered a training program (s) not
  funded by Section 166. On average, individuals who exited with a job increased
  their hourly wage rate by $4.80. In addition, 6,103 Native American youth
  participated in the INA youth program.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Federal Register, Volume 65, No. 156, Friday, August 11, 2000, 20 CFR Parts
  667 and 668 (20 CFR 652 et al.), Employment and Training Administration,
  United States Department of Labor.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Indian and Native American Programs, Division of Adult Services, Office of
  Workforce Investment, Employment and Training Administration, Department
