  of Labor, Room S-4209, 200 Constitution Avenue, N.W., Washington, DC               
  20210. Telephone: (202) 693-3046 Fax: (202) 693-3818.                              
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.doleta.gov/dinap                                                        
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  15.108, Indian Employment Assistance; 15.124, Indian Loans_Economic                
  Development; 17.207, Employment Service/Wagner-Peyser Funded Activities;           
  93.612, Native American Programs; 17.258, WIA Adult Program.                       
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  All funded projects have in common the provision of a comprehensive set of job     
  training services. Examples of these services are training, referral to            
  employment, counseling, work experience, child care, testing, job orientation,     
  and follow up on terminated participants.                                          
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Selection criteria are described in the regulations and DINAP administrative       
  instructions issued biennially in the Solicitation for Grant Application published 
  in the Federal Register. In general, designation is based on the regulatory        
  requirements found at 20 CFR 668.210, 668.220, and 668.230, concerning legal       
  status, ability to administer Federal funds, and prior experience and success in   
  providing employment and training services to the client population. In addition,  
  the other requirements for designation found at 20 CFR Part 668, Subpart B,        
  must also be met.                                                                  
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
17.266 WORK INCENTIVE GRANTS                                                         
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF                              
  LABOR                                                                              
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Key provisions are included in Sections 121, 134(c), and 189(c)(c) of the          
  Workforce Investment Act (29 U.S.C 2841, 2864 (c), and 2939(c)and the              
  Wagner-Peyser Act (29 USC 49f). Key regulations governing the Workforce            
  Investment Act (WIA) and Wagner-Peyser Act programs are at 20 CFR Parts            
  651-652 and 660-671.                                                               
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  The Work Incentive Grants (WIGs) and Disability Program Navigators (DPNs)          
  have been established to increase the labor force participation and career         
  advancement of persons with disabilities by effecting systemic change in the       
  One-Stop Career Centers. These programs support the capacity of the One-Stop       
  Career Center system to achieve integrated, seamless, and comprehensive            
  services for people with disabilities, thereby increasing their employment,        
  retention, and earnings. The competitive WIG Program has been reoriented from      
  a competitive solicitation to the Disability Program Navigator (DPN)               
  cooperative agreement, thereby assuring that the essential goals of the WIGs are   
  achieved in the workforce investment system. The Department of Labor (DOL)         
  and the Social Security Administration (SSA) jointly established a new position,   
  the Disability Program Navigator (DPN), in the DOL's One-Stop Career Centers.      
  The DPN guides the One-Stop Career Center staff in helping people with             
  disabilities access and navigate the various programs that impact upon their       
  ability to gain/retain employment. Complex rules surrounding entitlement           
  programs, along with the fear of losing cash assistance and health benefits, can   
  often discourage people with disabilities from working. Consequently, the DPN      
  initiative was established to better inform beneficiaries and other people with    
  disabilities about the work support programs now available at the DOL-funded       
  One-Stop Career Centers. The major objectives of the DPN initiative are: (1)       
  creating systemic change and transforming the culture of how the One-Stop          
  Career Center system serves customers with disabilities; (2) promoting             
  meaningful and effective access, both physical and programmatic, to the One-       
  Stop Career Center system for all customers, including persons with disabilities;  
  (3) creating attitudinal change about the abilities of people with disabilities to 
  work in a variety of jobs and industries; (4) developing new/ongoing               
  partnerships to achieve comprehensive services to people with disabilities; (5)    
  expanding and enhancing the workforce development system's capacity to serve       
  customers with disabilities and employers through the implementation of            
  effective DPN strategies and practices; and (6) increasing the number of people    
  with disabilities served under the WIA and achieving quality employment            
  outcomes for jobseekers with disabilities through accessing WIA Title I and        
  Wagner-Peyser Programs.                                                            
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Funds are used for establishing Disability Program Navigators in One-Stop          
  Career Centers and improving the centers' physical and programmatic access for     
  customers with disabilities. All proposed costs should be necessary and            
  reasonable according to the federal guidelines set forth in the Uniform            
  Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to state         
  and local governments, codified at 289 CFR Part 97, and must comply with the       
  applicable OMB cost principles circulars, as identified in 29 CFR 96.27 and 29     
  CFR 97.22(b). Awardees must comply with the all other applicable                   
  administrative standards and national policy provisions (listed in the SGA).       


                                                                                11-08
  Indirect costs cannot exceed 10 percent of the award. The DOL will negotiate
  performance goals with successful applicants that will be consistent with the
  Department's GPRA goals.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State WIA administrating agencies.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Limited to persons with disabilities eligible for employment and training
  services under the WIA.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This funding opportunity is not subject to Executive Order (EO) 12372,
  "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs."
Application Procedure:
  Solicitations for cooperative agreements will be published on the ETA Web site:
  http://www.doleta.gov/disability/. All information concerning the proper
  application, format, content, and applicable forms are contained in the
  solicitation and published cooperative agreement. The State WIA administrative
  entity in the states that meets the eligibility criteria will receive a cooperative
  agreement solicitation requesting a response within 30 days of receipt.
Award Procedure:
  Awards for cooperative agreements are made directly to successful applicants by
  the Employment and Training Administration (ETA) of the Department of
  Labor.
Deadlines:
  Contact the Employment and Training Administration, Office of Workforce
  Investment, Division of Adult Services for application deadlines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Up to 120 days.
Appeals:
  Contact the Employment and Training Administration, Office of Workforce
  Investment, Division of Adult Services, to obtain information on appeal
  procedures.
Renewals:
  The cooperative agreements may be extended beyond the initial period of award,
  depending upon the availability of funds, to provide additional support.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Not applicable.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The period of performance will be up to approximately 24 months from the date
  of execution by the Department. The Department may extend the period of
  performance based on the availability of funds and satisfactory performance.
  Payment will be made through electronic funds transfer utilizing the
  computerized Payment Management System (PMS).
Reports:
  Awardees will be required to submit quarterly financial reports. Additional data
  or narrative reports may be required. In addition, ETA will continue to evaluate
  the DPN program consistent with the evaluation process for the first 17 DPN
  states. This will include a qualitative evaluation for the DPN program,
  Submission of Workforce Investment Act Standard Record Data (WIASRD),
  and Wagner-Peyser Act data related to services and outcomes for customers
  with disabilities may also be required. Awardees must also provide to DOL
  semi-annual data for the workforce investment areas served by the DPN that
  includes Wagner-Peyser and WIA Title I data on individuals with disabilities
  who are participants, entered employment, are retained in employment, and their
  average earnings compared to the same data for individuals without disabilities.,
  consistent with the requirements that will be in place under the common
  measures. It is also necessary for all applicants that receive grants to meet
  performance targets that are consistent with the Department of Labor's
  Government Performance Results Act (GPRA) goals for the DPN initiative.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provision of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised June 2003),
  audits of states, local governments, and nonprofit organizations, nonfederal
  entities that received financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal awards
  shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular
  No. A-133.
Records:
  Grant recipients are required to maintain records in accordance with 29 CFR 95
  and 97. Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all
  other pertinent records shall normally be retained for a period of three years after
  the grant is closed out. Participant records shall be retained for five years.
  Records must be retained longer in certain cases, such as when audit findings
  have not been resolved.
Account Identification:
  16-0179-0-1-999.
Obligations:
  (Project Grants) FY 07 $30,000,000; FY 08 est $14,000,000; and FY 09 est $0.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
                                                                                    649
