  Forty-five states and the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico have been            
  awarded statewide cooperative agreements under the SGAs to eligible                 
  applicants. The cooperative agreement awards will be for a two-year period and      
  will range from $300,000 to $2,000,000, depending upon the request of the State     
  applying for the cooperative agreement and its size and population.                 
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  There has been continued expansion and implementation of disability resource        
  specialists or DPNs in One-Stop Career Centers to assure access to                  
  comprehensive, seamless services, and expertise. Currently, there will be           
  approximately 450 Navigators in One-Stop Career Centers in One-Stop Career          
  Centers across the country funded under this initiative as of June 2007 WIASRD      
  data for PY 2005 for workforceinvestment boards (WIBs) with Navigators show         
  the following outcome data for people with disabilities: 6.90 percent exiters;      
  80.4 percent employment retention rate; 69.9 entered employment rate; and           
  $3,256 earnings change. Universal access has been promoted in the One-Stop          
  Career Centers by expanding the availability of assistive technologies, training    
  One-Stop Career Center staff and workforce investment boards on the utilization     
  of assistive technology, reasonable accommodation resources and strategies,         
  disability etiquette, WIA Section 188 non-discrimination regulations, Section       
  504 of the Vocational Rehabilitation Act, and the Americans with Disabilities       
  Act provisions. Enhanced partnerships have been expanded at the Federal,            
  regional, state, and local levels with both mandated and other WIA partners by      
  coordinating access to services in the One-Stop Career Centers. This included       
  outreach to public and non-profit agencies that serve individuals with disabilities 
  and facilitating coordinated services to this customer group. By including non-     
  WIA mandated partners (e.g., the state Medicaid agencies or the SSA's Ticket to     
  Work implementation) in their efforts, the WIGs/DPNs have demonstrated that         
  expanding the scope of available services through innovative partnerships can       
  have a positive effect on long-term employment outcomes of people with              
  disabilities. A number of DPNs facilitated access to new Medicaid                   
  demonstration and waiver projects that are intended to remove health care           
  barriers and facilitate employment for beneficiaries of the SSA. The One-Stop       
  Toolkit (http://onestoptoolkit.org) Web site was utilized to share tools and        
  products that grantees have developed for their state and local areas. These        
  include training curriculum, self-assessment accessibility tools, memoranda of      
  understanding with Vocational Rehabilitation or other agencies, mystery             
  shopping protocols, effective strategies, etc. The Webcourse                        
  (www.wiawebcourse.org) for One-Stop-Career Center staff: "At Your Service:          
  Welcoming Customers with Disabilities" was revised and disseminated.                
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Regulations governing the WIA are at 20 CFR Parts 651 through 652, 660              
  through 671 (65 FR 49294, August 11, 2000). The Uniform Requirements for            
  Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments (also              
  known as the "Common Rule") are applicable. The "Common Rule" is codified           
  at 29 CFR Part 97 (97.22).                                                          
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Contact the Federal Project Officer (FPO) for the DPN Cooperative Agreements        
  in the appropriate Regional Employment and Training Administrative Office           
  listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.                                               
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Older Workers and Disability Unit, Division of Adult Services, Office of            
  Workforce Investment Employment and Training Administration, Department of          
  Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue, N.W., Washington, DC 20210, (202) 693-              
  3046; Fax: (202) 693-3818; TTY: (202) 693-2871.                                     
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.doleta.gov/disability.                                                   
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  17.207, Employment Service/Wagner-Peyser Funded Activities.                         
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  The cooperative agreement funds are to establish positions for Disability           
  Program Navigators in the One-Stop Career Centers. These positions facilitate       
  universal access to the One-Stop Career Center for job seekers with disabilities    
  through reaching out to the disability community, assuring the availability of      
  trained and expert staff, and enhancing coordination across programs and            
  services.                                                                           
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Selection criteria are described in the Solicitation for Cooperative Agreement      
  published on ETA's Web site.                                                        
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
17.267 INCENTIVE GRANTS - WIA SECTION 503                                             
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF                               
  LABOR; OFFICE OF VOCATIONAL AND ADULT EDUCATION,                                    
  DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION                                                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Workforce Investment Act of 1998, Public Law 105-220, Section 503, 20 U.S.C.        
  9273; Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education                   
  Amendments of 1998 (Perkins Act), Public Law 105-332, 20 U.S.C. 2301 et             
  seq.                                                                                


650                                                                             11-08

OBJECTIVES:
  To carry out innovative programs consistent with the purposes of Title I of WIA
  (Workforce Investment Systems), Title II of WIA (Adult Education and Family
  Literacy Act (AEFLA), 20 U.S.C. 9201 et seq.), the Carl D. Perkins Vocational
  and Applied Technology Education Amendments of 1998 (Public Law 105-332,
  20 U.S.C. 2301 et seq.) or a combination of two or more of these acts.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants; Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  States have great flexibility in using these funds and are not limited to
  conducting only one type of innovative program. However, the use of grant
  funds must be consistent with WIA Section 503, including the requirement that
  they be used for innovative programs which further the purposes of WIA Titles I
  and II and/or the Perkins Act. In addition, grantees must comply with the
  requirements of whichever program the innovation affects. For example, if the
  incentive funds will be used for innovations in the delivery of youth activities
  under WIA Title I, the program must be consistent with WIA Title I provisions
  applicable to youth activities and the WIA regulations at 20 CFR part 664.
  States must submit a plan describing the innovative activities to be funded with
  this grant. States are expected to use funds for services and activities: (1)
  beyond those provided with regular funds from the three programs, particularly
  those authorized by one of these programs and another program; (2) which serve
  the needs of populations intended to be served by one or more of these
  programs; and (3) targeted to improving the performance of State systems of
  employment, training, and education. In addition, States are encouraged to plan
  activities that promote cooperation and collaboration among the agencies
  administering WIA Title I, AEFLA, and Perkins Act programs.
Applicant Eligibility:
  States, including Washington, DC, the Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico, and Guam. A
  listing of States eligible to receive incentive grants for program year 2005
  performance will be published in the Federal Register in May 2007. To qualify
  for a grant, a State must exceed performance levels agreed to by the Secretary of
  Education, the Secretary of Labor, the Governor, and the State Education
  Officer, for outcomes in Titles I and II of the Workforce Investment Act (WIA)
  and the Perkins Act (Public Law 105-332, 20 U.S.C. 2301 et seq.), which
  include placement after training, retention in employment, and improvement in
  literacy levels, among other measures.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  States, including Washington, DC, the Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico, and Guam.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The application must include assurances that: The State legislature was
  consulted with respect to the development of the application; the application was
  approved by the Governor, the eligible agency for adult education, as defined in
  WIA Section 203(4) (20 U.S.C. 9202(4); and the State agency responsible for
  vocational and technical education programs, as defined in Perkins Act Section
  3(9) (20 U.S.C. 2302(9)); and The State and the eligible agency, as appropriate,
  exceeded the State adjusted levels of performance for WIA Title I, the State
  adjusted levels of performance for AEFLA, and the performance levels
  established for Perkins Act programs. This program is excluded from coverage
  under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Grants for projects are awarded on a competitive basis, announced in
  Solicitation for Grant Applications (SGAs) in the Federal Register and also on
  ETA's Internet website at http://www.doleta.gov. To compete for a grant,
  organizations develop a proposal and budget that demonstrate how the
  organization will provide services to a targeted population. The SGA provides all
  of the necessary information for applying for federal assistance. ETA will
  coordinate review of applications with the Department of Education.
Award Procedure:
  Procedures for each project are specified in the applicable request for proposals.
  Generally, the procedure is as follows: A technical review panel composed of
  staff from ETA program offices as well as peer reviewers evaluates eligible
  submitted applications. The panel prepares a report for the ETA Grant Officer
  identifying the strengths and weaknesses of the application and the cumulative
  rating. Once selections are made by the Grant Officer, an Award Notification is
  sent through the appropriate congressional channels for notification. After
  awardees are notified, the list of awardees is posted on the ETA website at
  www.doleta.gov. If an application is rejected, a letter is sent to the applicant as
  notification that they were not selected as a recipient of the grant.
Deadlines:
  Specified in the applicable request for proposals, but generally 45 to 60 days
  from announcement.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 30 to 60 days.
Appeals:
  Appeal procedures are at 20 CFR Part 667, Subpart H.
Renewals:
  None.
