Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  There are no matching requirements for this program. The formula used for          
  determining the amount of funds available to each eligible State is based on each  
  State's relative share of the combined WIA Title I, AEFLA, and Perkins Act         
  formula grants awarded to that State. The amount each State is eligible to         
  receive is determined by the Departments of Education and the Labor and is         
  based on WIA section 503(c) (20 U.S.C.9273(c)) which provides minimum and          
  maximum award amounts and procedures for proportionate reductions where            
  insufficient appropriations are available.                                         
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Funds are awarded on a program year (July to June) basis and are available for     
  expenditure for two years (the year of award and the succeeding year).             
Reports:                                                                             
  Reporting requirements are specified in the grant document.                        
Audits:                                                                              
  Audits shall be conducted in accordance with 20 CFR 667.200(b).                    
Records:                                                                             
  States are required to maintain adequate records in accordance with DOL            
  uniform administrative requirements in 29 CFR Sections 97.20 and 97.42.            
Account Identification:                                                              
  91-0400-0-1-501.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Grants) FY 07 $16,000,000; FY 08 est $10,000,000; FY 09 est $10,000,000.          
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  $750,000 to $3,000,000. However, the Secretary has the authority to award          
  grants less than $750,000 based on the amount of award money available and         
  the number of states eligible.                                                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  None.                                                                              
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  20 CFR 666.200 - 666.230; Training and Employment Guidance Letter No. 20-

                                                                                     
  01, change5 to be released in May 2007.

                                                                                     
Regional or Local Office:

                                                                                     
  None.

                                                                                     
Headquarters Office:

                                                                                     
  Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor, 200

                                                                                     
  Constitution Avenue, N.W., Washington, DC 20210. Contact: Karen Staha,

                                                                                     
  Chief, Division of System Accomplishments and Accountability, Office of

                                                                                     
  Performance and Technology, Room S5206. (202) 693-3031.

                                                                                     
Web Site Address:

                                                                                     
  http://www.doleta.gov/performance.

RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  17.258, WIA Adult Program; 17.259, WIA Youth Activities; 17.260, WIA               
  Dislocated Workers; 84.002, Adult Education - Basic Grants to States; 84.048,      
  Career and Technical Education -- Basic Grants to States.                          
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  None.                                                                              
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  None.                                                                              
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
17.268 H-1B JOB TRAINING GRANTS                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF                              
  LABOR                                                                              
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  American Competitiveness and Workforce Improvement Act of 1998, Section            
  414 (c), Public Law 105-227.                                                       
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  The H-1B Job Training Grant Program consists of two parts the High Growth          
  Job Training Initiative and the Workforce Innovation in Regional Economic          
  Development (WIRED) Initiative. The President's High Growth Job Training           
  Initiative represents the first step in a series of actions that the Department of 
  Labor's Employment and Training Administration (ETA) has taken to engage           
  business, education and the workforce investment system to work together to        
  develop solutions to the workforce challenges facing high growth industries. By    
  expanding the local workforce system's capacity to be market-driven, responsive    
  to local economic needs, and a contributor to the economic well-being of the       
  community, the Employment and Training Administration is promoting                 
  workforce quality, enhanced productivity, and economic competitiveness. The        
  High Growth Job Training Initiative continues to invest in national models and     
  demonstrations of workforce solutions in these sectors designed to achieve the     
  following outcomes: Targeted investment of workforce development resources         
  and support for private and public sector partnerships to ensure the development   
  of workers skills in occupations where industry has identified needs. Increased    
  integration of community and technical college efforts with business and the       
  public workforce system activities to meet the skills training needs of high-      
  growth industries. Increased opportunities for employers to use apprenticeship     
  training as skills development methodology, combining on-the-job training and      
  academics, to ensure a pipeline of skilled workers. Providing workers with paths   
  to career enhancing opportunities in high-growth occupations. The goal of the      


                                                                                11-08
  WIRED initiative is to expand employment and advancement opportunities for
  American workers and catalyze the creation of high-skill and high-wage
  opportunities in the regional economies. The WIRED Initiative focuses on labor
  market areas that are comprised of multiple jurisdictions within state or across
  state borders. It supports innovative approaches to workforce development,
  economic development, and education that go beyond traditional strategies
  preparing workers to compete and succeed both within the United States and
  globally. This initiative is designed for regions that have been affected by global
  trade, are dependent on a single industry or are recovering from natural disasters.
   One of the key elements of the WIRED Initiative is a strong regional partnership
  composed of all the organizations necessary to transform the regional economy,
  including workforce, civic, business, investor, education, government,
  entrepreneurial, and philanthropic organizations. WIRED grantees have a
  unique opportunity to design and implement strategic approaches that will
  transform their economies and the systems that support those economies.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  ETA identified 14 sectors that fit within the following criteria: (1) they are
  projected to add substantial numbers of new jobs to the economy or affect the
  growth of other industries; or (2) they are existing or emerging businesses being
  transformed by technology and innovation requiring new skills sets for workers.
  The sectors include: Advanced Manufacturing, Aerospace, Automotive,
  Biotechnology, Construction, Energy, Financial Services, Geospatial
  Technology, Health Care, Homeland Security, Hospitality, Information
  Technology, Retail, and Transportation. Funds are to be used to provide job
  training services and related capacity-building activities that are designed to
  assist workers in gaining the skills and competencies needed to obtain or
  upgrade career ladder employment positions in high-growth industries and
  economic sectors. In order to facilitate these job training services, funds may be
  used to assist in the development and implementation of model activities such as
  developing appropriate curricula to build core competencies and train workers,
  identifying and disseminating career and skill information, and increasing the
  integration of community and technical college activities with activities of
  businesses and the public workforce investment system to meet the training
  needs for high-growth industries and economic sectors.
Applicant Eligibility:
  In the majority of grants funded under these programs, applicants may be public,
  private for-profit, and private nonprofit organizations. This includes businesses
  or business-related nonprofit organizations (such as trade associations),
  Workforce Investment Boards and One-Stop Career Centers, units of state and
  local government, economic development agencies, education and training
  providers including community colleges, and other community and faith-based
  organizations. However, applicant eligibility may be restricted to one or more
  applicant classes under particular announcements and solicitations.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Generally, the scope of potential trainees under these programs is very broad.
  Training may be targeted to a wide variety of populations, including unemployed
  individuals and incumbent workers.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Grantees must demonstrate an adequate organizational capacity, both fiscally
  and programmatically, including a project management structure. Additionally,
  grantees must provide evidence of the use of data systems to track outcomes in a
  timely and accurate manner.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None except as specified in solicitations. This program is excluded from
  coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Grants for projects are awarded on a competitive basis, announced in
  Solicitation for Grant Applications (SGAs) in the Federal Register and also on
  ETA's Internet website at http://www.doleta.gov. To compete for a grant,
  organizations develop a proposal and budget that demonstrate how the
  organization will provide services to a targeted population. The SGA provides all
  of the necessary information for applying for federal assistance.
Award Procedure:
  Procedures for each project are specified in the applicable request for proposals.
  Generally, the procedure is as follows: A technical review panel composed of
  staff from ETA program offices as well as peer reviewers evaluates eligible
  submitted applications. The panel prepares a report for the ETA Grant Officer
  identifying the strengths and weaknesses of the application and the cumulative
  rating. Once selections are made by the Grant Officer, an Award Notification is
  sent through the appropriate congressional channels for notification. After
  awardees are notified, the list of awardees is posted on the ETA website at
  www.doleta.gov. If an application is rejected, a letter is sent to the applicant as
  notification that they were not selected as a recipient of the grant.
Deadlines:
  Specified in the applicable request for proposals, but generally 45 to 60 days
  from announcement.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 90 to 120 days.
                                                                                   651
