Appeals:                                                                               
  Procedures for each project are specified in the applicable Solicitation for Grant   
  Applications.                                                                        
Renewals:                                                                              
  Renewals with funds are not available. However, with significant justification       
  ETA may elect to exercise its option to award no-cost extensions to these grants     
  for an additional period at its own discretion, based on the success of the

  program and other relevant factors.

                                                                                       
Formula and Matching Requirements:

  Some grants are required to provide cash or in-kind matching resources equal to      
  at least fifty percent of the grant funds awarded. Information about match           
  requirements for future grants will be specified in the applicable Solicitations for 
  Grant Applications.                                                                  
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Most projects last one to three years. Payments to grantees are usually made by      
  Letter of Credit draw-down procedures.                                               
Reports:                                                                               
  At a minimum, quarterly progress and financial reports and final reports are         
  required. Additional requirements are included in the solicitation.                  
Audits:                                                                                
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised June            
  27, 2003) Audits of states, local governments, and nonprofit organizations,          
  nonfederal entities that receive financial assistance of $500,000 or more in         
  federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that     
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in federal           
  awards are exempt from federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted     
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                               
Records:                                                                               
  Recipients are required to maintain books, records, documents, and other             
  evidence of accounting procedures and practices sufficient to reflect properly all   
  direct and indirect costs of whatever nature claimed to have been incurred for       
  the performance of the grant. Records are to be retained for 3 years from the date   
  of final payment unless the grant officer authorizes earlier disposal.               
Account Identification:                                                                
  16-0174-0-1-504.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  FY 07 $111,000,000; FY 08 est $125,000,000; and FY 09 est $125,000,000.              
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  Under the High Growth Job Training Initiative, the majority of grants range from     
  $750,000 to $1.5 million. Under the WIRED Initiative, grants are awarded for         
  either $15 million or $5 million for three years.                                    
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  As of March 2006, 131 grants worth over $258 million have been awarded               
  under the High Growth Job Training Initiative. Between July 1, 2005 and March        
  30, 2006 over $54 million in H-1B funds have been awarded under the High             
  Growth Job Training Initiative. During 2006, competitions are expected for           
  talent development investments in the advanced manufacturing, construction,          
  and energy under the President's High Growth Job Training Initiative. Under the      
  WIRED Initiative, ETA has awarded $195 million in grants lasting three years to      
  thirteen regions. An additional competition under the WIRED Initiative was           
  announced in February 2006.                                                          
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  Specified in applicable Solicitation for Grant Applications.                         
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  Contact the nearest Employment and Training Administration regional office           
  listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.                                                
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Business Relations Group, Office of Workforce Investment, Employment and             
  Training Administration, Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Ave., N.W.,           
  Room N-4643, Washington, DC 20210. Contact: Mindy Feldbaum. Telephone:               
  (202) 693-3949, E-mail: businessrelations@dol.gov.                                   
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.doleta.gov.                                                               
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  17.269, Community Based Job Training Grants.                                         
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  (1) A $2 million grant to provide apprenticeship training, short-term training,      
  and skill certification for 3,312 bus mechanics, rail mechanics, rail signal         
  maintainers, elevator/escalator technicians, and equipment maintainers; (2) A        
  $2,480,852 grant to a state community college system to organize an advanced         
  manufacturing training center organized as a factory rather than as a school, and    
  training over 3600 students; (3) A $2,305,995 grant to develop and disseminate       
  a two-year Associate of Applied Science Degree in Nuclear Technology program         
  and train at least 160 students to be hired by nuclear power plants and national     
  laboratories; (4) A $15 million grant to help transform a regional economy that      
  been supported by a high wage automotive industry that is now in decline, by         
  building on the research and development of its universities to create and build     
  new technologies, such as alternative fuels, to encourage new companies and          
  new jobs across the region; and (5) A $15 million grant to help transform a          
  regional economy whose key manufacturing industries -textiles, apparel,              


652                                                                              11-08

  tobacco, and furniture- have been devastated by globalization and the
  availability of inexpensive offshore labor by integrating workforce development,
  education, cluster-focused economic development, and entrepreneurship.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Criteria for each proposal are specified in the applicable Solicitation for Grant
  Applications.
17.269 COMMUNITY BASED JOB TRAINING GRANTS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF
  LABOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Workforce Investment Act of 1998, Title I, Subtitle D, Section 171 (d), Public
  Law 105-220.
OBJECTIVES:
  Technology and innovation, globalization, and the aging of America's workforce
  are continuously changing the nature of work and, indeed, the workplace.
  Businesses in high-growth, high-demand industries face increasing difficulties
  in finding workers with the right skills. As a result, community colleges are
  important training providers for workers needing to develop, retool, refine, and
  broaden their skills in high-growth, high-demand occupations because of their
  close connection to local labor markets. Community Based Job Training Grants
  strengthen the role of community colleges in promoting the U.S. workforce's full
  potential. Community Based Job Training Grants are awarded through a
  competitive process to support workforce training for high-growth industries
  through the national system of community and technical colleges. The primary
  purpose of these grants is to build the capacity of community colleges to train
  workers to develop the skills required to succeed in: (i) local industries and
  occupations that are expected to experience high growth; and (ii) industries
  where demand for qualified workers is outstripping the supply. These
  competitive grants build on the High Growth Job Training Initiative, a national
  model for demand-driven workforce development, implemented by strategic
  partnerships among the workforce investment system, employers, and
  community colleges. All grantees engage in a combination of capacity-building
  and training activities.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The funds must be used for both of the following activities: (1) increasing the
  capacity of community colleges to provide training in a local high-growth, high-
  demand industry through activities such as the development of training curricula
  with local industry, hiring qualified faculty, arranging on-the-job experiences
  with industry, and using up-to-date equipment; and (2) training new and
  experienced workers in identified high-growth, high-demand industries, with the
  aim of employing and/or increasing the retention and earnings of trained
  workers, while meeting the skill needs of businesses within targeted industries in
  the context of the regional economy.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible applicants, under the second Solicitation for Grant Applications (SGA)
  for Community-Based Job Training Grants, included (1) community colleges, as
  defined by 20 U.S.C. 2371. 20 U.S.C. 2371 states: The term community college
  (A) means an institution of higher education as defined in 20 U.S.C. 1001 that
  provides not less than a two-year program that is acceptable for full credit
  towards a bachelor's degree; and (B) includes tribally-controlled colleges and
  universities; (2) community college districts; (3) State community college
  systems; and (4) One-Stop Career Centers who meet specific criteria. Under the
  exception to eligible applicants for rural and other educationally underserved
  areas with no access to community colleges, additional eligible applicants
  included: Publicly-funded Institutions of Higher Education, as defined in 20
  U.S.C. 1001; and Alternate Educational Entities that are governmental or not-
  for-profit organizations that directly deliver, or broker for delivery, post
  secondary education opportunities.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Generally, the scope of potential trainees under Community-Based Job Training
  Grants is very broad. WIA Section 171(d) authorizes demonstration programs to
  serve dislocated workers, incumbent workers, and new entrants to the workforce.
  This authorization supports a broad range of training for a variety of
  populations, including: incumbent workers who need new skills for jobs in
  demand up the career ladder or because the skill needs for their current job have
  changed; untapped labor pools such as immigrant workers, individuals with
  disabilities, veterans, older workers, youth, etc; or entry level workers who need
  basic skills and/or specific occupational skill training. The identification of
  targeted and qualified trainees should be part of the larger project planning
  process undertaken by the required partnership and should relate to the
  workforce issue that is being addressed by the training.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Grantees must demonstrate an adequate organization capacity, including a
  project management structure. Additionally, grantees must provide evidence of
  the use of data systems to track outcomes in a timely and accurate manner.
