Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  None except as specified in solicitations. This program is excluded from           
  coverage under E.O. 12372.                                                         
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Grants for projects are awarded on a competitive basis, announced in               
  Solicitation for Grant Applications (SGAs) in the Federal Register and also on     
  ETA's Web site at http://www.doleta.gov. To compete for a grant, organizations     
  develop a proposal and budget that demonstrate how the organization will           
  provide services to a targeted population. The SGA provides all of the necessary   
  information for applying for Federal assistance.                                   
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Procedures for each project are specified in the applicable Solicitation for Grant 
  Applications. Generally, the procedure is as follows: A technical review panel     
  composed of staff from ETA program offices as well as peer reviewers evaluates     
  eligible submitted applications. The panel prepares a report for the ETA Grant     
  Officer identifying the strengths and weaknesses of the application and the        
  cumulative rating. Once selections are made by the Grant Officer, an Award         
  Notification is sent through the appropriate congressional channels. After         
  awardees are notified, the list of awardees is posted on the ETA Web site at       
  www.doleta.gov. If an application is rejected, a letter is sent to the applicant as
  notification that they were not selected as a recipient of the grant.              
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Specified in the applicable Solicitation for Grant Applications, but generally 45  
  to 60 days from announcement.                                                      
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  From 90 to 120 days.                                                               
Appeals:                                                                             
  Procedures for each project are specified in the applicable Solicitation for Grant

  Applications.

                                                                                     
Renewals:

  Renewals with funds are not available. However, with significant justification     
  ETA may elect to exercise its option to award no-cost extensions to these grants   
  for an additional period at its own discretion, based on the success of the        
  program and other relevant factors.                                                
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  In the first two solicitations, there was not a match requirement. Information     
  about match requirements for future competitions will be specified in the          
  applicable Solicitation for Grant Applications.                                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Most projects last two to three years. Payments to grantees are usually made by    
  Letter of Credit draw-down procedures.                                             
Reports:                                                                             
  At a minimum, quarterly progress and financial reports and final reports are       
  required. Additional requirements are included in the Solicitation for Grant       
  Applications.                                                                      
Audits:                                                                              
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised June          
  27, 2003) Audits of States, local governments, and nonprofit organizations,        
  nonfederal entities that receive financial assistance of $500,000 or more in       
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that   
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal         
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted   
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                             
Records:                                                                             
  Recipients are required to maintain books, records, documents, and other           
  evidence of accounting procedures and practices sufficient to reflect properly all 
  direct and indirect costs of whatever nature claimed to have been incurred for     
  the performance of the grant. Records are to be retained for three years from the  
  date of final payment unless the grant officer authorizes earlier disposal.        
Account Identification:                                                              
  16-0174-0-1-504.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  FY 07 $125,000,000; FY 08 est $125,000,000; and FY 09 est $125,000,000.            
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  $500,000 to $2 Million.                                                            
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  In October 2005, DOL awarded $250 million in Community-Based Job Training          
  Grants to 142 community colleges in 45 states. The Department of Labor will        
  conduct a third competition for Community-Based Job Training Grants in late        
  spring 2007. For more information on these grants, please visit the Department     
  of Labor's Web site at http://www.doleta.gov/business/Community-                   
  BasedJobTrainingGrants.cfm.                                                        
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  Provided in the applicable Solicitation for Grant Applications.                    
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  Contact the nearest Employment and Training Administration regional office         
  listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.                                              
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Division of Adult Services, Office of Workforce Investment, Employment and         
  Training Administration, Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Ave., N.W.,         


                                                                                11-08
  Room S-4209, Washington, DC 20210. Contact: Maggie Ewell. Telephone:
  (202) 693-3160, E-mail: CommunityBased.Grant@dol.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.doleta.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  17.268, H-1B Job Training Grants.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Examples include: (1) A $2,465,656 grant to a community college to offer
  students training for new healthcare career opportunities in nursing, surgical
  technology, radiography, and clinical laboratory technology; (2) A $1,271,550
  grant to a community college to expand entry-level and advanced certified
  training and procure new equipment and technology to train workers for
  automotive, diesel, collision repair, and truck driving occupations; (3) A
  $2,150,357 grant to a community college consortium to identify technical
  competencies for advanced manufacturing and alternative energy, prepare
  modules in response to employer-identified skill and competency gaps, and
  establish Centers of Expertise or technology training in support of target
  industries; (4) A $3,018,928 grant to a community college to design and
  implement a two-year curriculum to prepare out-of-school youth, Job Corps
  students, community college students, and incumbent workers as automotive
  manufacturing technicians; and (5) A $1,937,112 grant to a One-Stop Career
  Center and its two community college partners to develop a healthcare career
  ladder model that will produce new Registered Nurses, Paramedics and
  Emergency Medical Technicians (EMT).
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Criteria for each proposal are specified in the applicable Solicitation for Grant
  Applications.
17.270 REINTEGRATION OF EX-OFFENDERS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF
  LABOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Workforce Investment Act of 1998, Title I, Subtitle D, Section 171, Public Law
  105-220.
OBJECTIVES:
  This program includes both Prisoner Reentry Initiative (PRI) grants to serve
  adult returning offenders and Youthful Offender grants aimed at youth involved
  or at risk of involvement in crime and violence. The objectives of the PRI grants
  include increasing the employment rate, employment retention rate, and earnings
  of released prisoners, and decreasing their recidivism. The objectives of the
  Youthful Offender grants include preventing in-school youth from dropping out
  of school, increasing the employment rate of out-of-school youth, increasing the
  reading and math skills of youth, reducing the involvement of youth in crime
  and violence, and reducing the recidivism rate of youth.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Services under the PRI grants include assistance in finding employment,
  mentoring, job training, remedial education, and other comprehensive
  transitional services. Services under the Youthful Offender grants include a
  wide array of educational, employment, mentoring, case management, and
  violence reduction efforts.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible applicants for PRI grants are faith-based and community organizations
  (FBCOs) that are located in, or have a staff presence in, the urban community
  being served. Eligible applicants for Youthful Offenders vary depending on the
  solicitation, but have included community-based organizations, school districts,
  and juvenile justice agencies.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  PRI grants serve individuals, 18 years old and older, who have been convicted as
  an adult and have been imprisoned for violating a state or federal law, and who
  have never been committed a sex-related offense. Depending on the solicitation,
  enrollment may be limited based on whether the presenting offense was violent
  or whether the individual has previously committed a violent crime. Individuals
  eligible for Youthful Offender grants vary depending on the solicitation.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Non-governmental entities ordinarily must furnish documentary evidence of
  adequate financial controls.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None except as specified in solicitations. This program is excluded from
  coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Grants for projects are awarded on a competitive basis, announced in
  Solicitation for Grant Applications (SGAs) in the Federal Register and also on
  ETA's Web site at http://www.doleta.gov. To compete for a grant, organizations
  develop a proposal and budget that demonstrate how the organization will
  provide services to a targeted population. The SGA provides all of the necessary
  information for applying for Federal assistance. Please note that competitions
                                                                                      653
