  for PRI and Youth Offender grants do not necessarily occur every year,                
  depending on availability of funds and the extent to which existing grants are        
  continuing.                                                                           
Award Procedure:                                                                        
  Procedures for each project are specified in the applicable request for proposals.    
  The general procedure is as follows. A technical review panel composed of staff       
  from ETA program offices as well as peer reviewers evaluates eligible submitted

  applications. The panel prepares a report for the ETA Grant Officer identifying       
  the strengths and weaknesses of the application and the cumulative rating. Once

  selections are made by the Grant Officer, an Award Notification is sent through       
  the appropriate congressional channels for notification. After awardees are           
  notified, the list of awardees is posted on the ETA Web site at www.doleta.gov.       
  If an application is rejected, a letter is sent to the applicant as notification that 
  they were not selected as a recipient of the grant.                                   
Deadlines:                                                                              
  Specified in the applicable request for proposals, but generally 45 days from         
  announcement.                                                                         
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                     
  From 45 to 90 days.                                                                   
Appeals:                                                                                
  Procedures for each project are specified in the applicable request for proposals.    
Renewals:                                                                               
  Extensions available upon approval; renewals are not automatic.                       
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                      
  Matching requirements vary by grant announcement.                                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                  
  The period of performance varies by grant announcement. The possibility of            
  additional years of funding varies by grant announcement. Payments to                 
  grantees are usually made by Letter of Credit draw-down procedures.                   
Reports:                                                                                
  Quarterly progress and financial reports and final reports are required.              
  Depending on the solicitation, grantees also may be required to participate in        
  DOL's Management Information System data collection system.                           
Audits:                                                                                 
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised June             
  27, 2003), audits of states, local governments, and nonprofit organizations, non-     
  Federal entities that receive financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal     
  awards must have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.        
Records:                                                                                
  Recipients are required to maintain books, records, documents, and other              
  evidence of accounting procedures and practices sufficient to reflect properly all    
  direct and indirect costs of whatever nature claimed to have been incurred for        
  the performance of the grant. Records are to be retained for three years from the     
  date of final payment unless the grant officer authorizes earlier disposal.           
Account Identification:                                                                 
  16-0174-0-1-504.                                                                      
Obligations:                                                                            
  (Project Grants) FY 07 $74,000,000; FY 08 est $73,000,000; FY 09 est

                                                                                        
  $40,000,000.                                                                          
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                              
  Initial awards for PRI Grants have ranged from $130,000 to $667,000 a year.

                                                                                        
  Initial awards for Youthful Offender grants have recently ranged from $1 million      
  to $3.2 million a year.                                                               
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                
  Now in their third year of operation, PRI grants have thus far enrolled 13,881        
  participants, with 8,778 of these participants finding employment. The                
  recidivism rate for the participants in the program is 15 percent. Youthful           
  Offender grants typically serve about 9,000 individuals each year, and these          
  programs have placed 56 percent of out-of-school participants in jobs,                
  education, or training. The recidivism rate in Youth Offender programs is 12          
  percent for 14 to 17 year-olds and 11 percent for participants ages 18 and above.     
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                
  Specified in SGA Announcement.                                                        
Regional or Local Office:                                                               
  Contact the nearest Employment and Training Administration regional office            
  listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.                                                 
Headquarters Office:                                                                    
  Division of Youth Services, Office of Workforce Investment, Employment and            
  Training Administration, Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Ave., N.W.,            
  Room N-4511, Washington, DC 20210. Contact for PRI Grants: Jenn Smith.                
  Telephone: (202) 693-3597, E-mail: Smith.Jenn@dol.gov. Contact for Youthful           
  Offender Grants: Richard Morris. Telephone: (202)-693-3603, E-mail:                   
  Morris.Richard@dol.gov.                                                               
Web Site Address:                                                                       
  http://www.doleta.gov.                                                                
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                       
  None.                                                                                 
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                            
  PRI Grants: Grants of $660,000 to community and faith-based organizations to          
  support a project director, three job counselors, one job developer, a mentoring      


654                                                                               11-08

  supervisor, an administrative assistant, tryout jobs for participants, materials and
  supplies. Youthful Offender Grants: Grants to school districts, community-
  based organizations, and juvenile justice agencies to start or enhance alternative
  school serving juvenile offenders.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Criteria for each proposal are specified in the applicable request for proposals.
17.271 WORK OPPORTUNITY TAX CREDIT PROGRAM
(WOTC)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF
  LABOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Small Business Job Protection Act of 1996, as amended, Public Law 104-188;
  Tax Payer Relief Act of 1997, as amended Public Law 105-34; Working
  Families Tax Relief Act of 2004, Public Law 108-311; Tax Relief and Health
  Care Act of 2006, Public Law 109-432); Internal Revenue Code Sections 51 and
  51 (A).
OBJECTIVES:
  The tax credit was designed to help individuals from nine target groups who
  consistently have faced significant barriers to employment move from economic
  dependency to self-sufficiency by encouraging businesses in the private sector to
  hire target group members and be eligible to claim tax credits against the wages
  paid to the new hires during the fist year of employment.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  States are to use these formula grants for: determining eligibility of individuals
  as members of targeted groups; issuing employer certifications or denials;
  developing working agreements with partner agencies in the One-Stop Service
  Delivery system and coordinating efforts to promote WOTC to employers and
  job seekers and other Workforce Investment Act (WIA) partners. The Federal
  government provides general direction, funding, and oversight.
Applicant Eligibility:
  States (not individuals), the District of Columbia, the Virgin Islands, and Puerto
  Rico.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  All employers seeking WOTC target group workers and target group members
  seeking employment. The members of the different target groups have statutory
  definitions (per Public Law 109-432 ) with specific eligibility requirements that
  must be verified by the state workforce agencies before a certification can be
  issued to an employer or his representatives. Participating employers and their
  representatives must file their certification requests using IRS Form 8850 and
  ETA Form 9061 or 9062 within 28 days after the employment-start day of the
  new hires. This timeliness requirement cannot be waived and must be met before
  a state can issue a certification for eligible target group members.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Cost will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 as codified
  in 41 CFR 1-15.7 for State and local governments.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  State workforce agencies (SWAs) must submit an annual grant plan and
  statement of work to ETA according to the requirements issued in the Guidance
  for Work Opportunity Tax Credit (WOTC) Allotments and Grant Plan
  Submission Training Guidance and Employment Letter. SWAs may request
  extensions through ETA regional offices.
Award Procedure:
  Review of State Plans occurs at Employment and Training Administration
  National Office. WOTC grant funds for approved state plans are provided under
  separate annual funding agreements for each program year with the designated
  SWA.
Deadlines:
  Established each year (contact Federal agency for deadline for application
  submission).
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  As provided in regulations.
Appeals:
  As provided in regulations.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Under the WOTC Program, funds are allotted to each SWA by administrative
  formula based on each state's relative share of: total certifications issued for the
  WOTC Program in the previous year, civilian labor force, and adult recipients of
  Temporary Assistance for Needy Families. There are no matching requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Funding is provided throughout the year as appropriated funds become available
  to meet immediate cash requirements.
