  20, CFR Part 656.                                                                  
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  The following addresses, phone numbers, and FAX numbers should be used by          
  employers and by State Workforce Agencies for either inquiries or the              
  forwarding of applications materials, as appropriate. Please note, for all         
  application materials, inquiries, and other correspondence sent to either the      
  Atlanta or Chicago National Processing Center, envelopes should be clearly         
  marked according to the appropriate program type. Atlanta Processing Center        
  Address: Department of Labor, Employment and Training Administration,              
  Harris Tower, 233 Peachtree Street, Suite 410 Atlanta, GA 30303, Telephone:        
  (404) 893-0101 Fax: (404) 893-4642. Chicago Processing Center Address:             
  Department of Labor, Employment and Training Administration, 844 North             
  Rush Street, 12th Floor, Chicago, IL 60611 Telephone: (312) 886-8000 Fax:          
  (312) 886-1688.                                                                    
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Administrator, Office of Foreign Labor Certification, Department of Labor, 200     
  Constitution Avenue, NW, C-4312, Washington, DC 20210. Telephone: (202)            
  693-3010. Contact: William L. Carlson.                                             
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.foreignlaborcert.doleta.gov/.                                           
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  17.207, Employment Service/Wagner-Peyser Funded Activities; 17.273                 
  Temporary Labor Certification for Foreign Workers.                                 
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  Not applicable.                                                                    
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Not applicable.                                                                    
                                                                                     
17.273 TEMPORARY LABOR CERTIFICATION FOR                                             
FOREIGN WORKERS                                                                      
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF                              
  LABOR                                                                              
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952, as amended, Sections 101(a)(15)(H),       
  212(n), 214(c) and 214(i); Public Law 82-414, 66 Stat. 163, 8 U.S.C. 1101 et       
  seq.; Immigration Act of 1990, Public Law 101-649, 104 Stat. 4978, 8 U.S.C.        
  1182(n) and 1184; Public Law 102-232, 105 Stat. 1733, 8 U.S.C. 1182 note.          
  Public Law 82-414, 66 Stat. 163, 8 U.S.C. 1101, et seq.; Immigration Reform        
  and Control Act of 1986, Public Law 99-603, 100 Stat. 3359, 8 U.S.C. 1186.         
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To provide greater protection for U.S. and foreign workers without interfering     
  with an employer's right to obtain temporary foreign workers. Also, to enable      
  agricultural and other employers to obtain foreign workers for temporary or        
  seasonal jobs when domestic workers are not available; to protect domestic         
  workers against unfair competition from foreign workers; and to assure adequate    
  working and living conditions for domestic and foreign workers employed in         
  similar tasks.                                                                     
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Provision of Specialized Services; Formula Grants.                                 
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  The Department of Labor issues labor certifications for temporary employment       
  under several programs: H-1B Specialty (Professional) Worker Program, H-1B1        
  Specialty Worker Program (professionals from Chile or Singapore working in         
  specialty occupations), E-3 Specialty Worker Program (professionals from           
  Australia working in specialty occupations), H-2A Temporary Labor                  
  Certification (Agricultural), H-2B Temporary Labor Certification (Non-             
  Agricultural), and D-1 Crewmember Program. Under Section                           
  101(a)(15)(H)(i)(b) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, nonimmigrant           
  foreign workers cannot be admitted to work in a specialty occupation or as a       
  fashion model unless the Secretary of Labor determines and certifies to the        
  Secretary of Homeland Security the intending employer filed with and had           
  approved by the Secretary an application under section 212(n)(1). The labor        
  condition application requires the employer to attest to compliance with program   
  requirements, including certain working conditions and wages for foreign and       
  U.S. workers. Employers who need workers for temporary agricultural jobs may       
  be certified to use foreign workers after the Secretary of Labor has determined    
  that there are not sufficient domestic workers capable of performing the job       
  duties and that the employment of foreign workers will not adversely affect the    
  wages and working conditions of similarly employed domestic workers. The           
  Secretary of Labor will render only advisory opinions to the Secretary of          
  Homeland Security on applications for foreign worker employment for                
  temporary nonagricultural work under Section 101(a)(15)(H)(ii) of the Act.         
  Certifications will be made only after efforts to recruit domestic workers through 
  the Federal-State employment service system are unsuccessful. Performance of       
  longshore work at U.S. ports by D-1 crewmembers on foreign vessels is              
  generally prohibited with few exemptions. The Department of Labor is               
  responsible for administering two of those exemptions. Employers in these ports    
  are required to file an attestation stating that the use of alien crewmembers to   


656                                                                            11-08

  perform longshore work is the prevailing practice for the activity at that port,
  there is no strike or lockout at the place of employment, and that notice has been
  given to U.S. workers or their representatives. Another exception requires that,
  before using alien crewmen to perform longshore activities in the State of
  Alaska, the employer will make a bona fide request for and employ U.S.
  longshore workers who are qualified and available in sufficient numbers from
  contract stevedoring companies, labor organizations recognized as exclusive
  bargaining representatives of U.S. longshore workers, and private dock
  operators. State Workforce Agencies receive grants to perform the following
  labor certification activities: provide prevailing wage determinations for all non-
  agricultural labor certification programs; process H-2B temporary non-
  agricultural labor certification applications; and receive new applications for H-
  2A temporary agricultural labor certifications, performing prevailing wage and
  prevailing practice surveys, ensuring housing inspections are conducted and
  processing job orders.
Applicant Eligibility:
  H-2A Program: An agricultural employer who anticipates a shortage of U.S.
  workers needed to perform agricultural labor or services of a temporary or
  seasonal nature. The employer may be an individual proprietorship, a
  partnership or a corporation. An association of agricultural producers may file as
  a sole employer, a joint employer with its members, or as an agent of its
  members. An authorized agent, whether an individual (e.g., and attorney) or an
  entity (e.g., an association), may file an application on behalf of an employer.
  Associations may file master applications on behalf of their members. H-2B
  Program: The job and the employer's need must be one time, seasonal, peak load
  or intermittent; the job must be for less than one year; and there must be no
  qualified and willing U.S. workers available for the job. An employer can file an
  application for labor certification with the appropriate National Processing
  Center of the Employment and Training Administration. State Workforce
  Agencies are federally funded to issue prevailing wage determinations for
  foreign labor certification programs.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Employers and foreign workers to be employed in specialty occupations or as
  fashion models or in temporary agricultural or non-agricultural employment.
Credentials/Documentation:
  In most of these programs, employers sponsoring aliens for employment-based
  permanent residency file the certification from the Department of Labor as
  documentation in support of their respective I-140 immigrant worker petitions
  with the Department of Homeland Security, United States Citizenship and
  Immigration Services (USCIS). In the H-1B1 and E-3 programs, a USCIS
  petition is not needed for initial visa issuance, and the alien may use proof of
  certification in support of the visa application.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None, this program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Employers contact the appropriate office of the Employment and Training
  Administration. Also see http://www.doleta.gov/business/gw/guestwkr/ for
  additional details on specific programs.
Award Procedure:
  Certifications are sent to the employer in support of the petition to be filed with
  the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services which makes the final decision
  whether to grant or deny the admission of foreign workers. Certified copies of
  accepted attestations for the D-1 Crewmember program are returned to the
  employer and the USCIS is notified of the filing in writing. Grants: State
  Workforce Agencies receive funds upon acceptance of their work plans.
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From one to seven days. H-1B: From one to seven days. H-2A: Statute requires
  an initial acceptance by ETA within seven days of filing, and a final
  determination 30 days prior to the employer's date of need.
Appeals:
  There is no procedure for appealing Employment and Training Administration
  determination to accept or reject a Labor Condition Application. Complaints
  regarding misrepresentation in the attestation or failure of the employer to carry
  out the terms of the attestation may be filed with the Wage and Hour Division,
  Employment Standards Administration, Department of Labor.
Renewals:
  Treated as filing of new labor condition applications.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Grants to State Workforce Agencies are distributed using a formula based on
  state workloads.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Not applicable.
Reports:
  The Employment and Training Administration compiles and maintains on a
  current basis for public examination in Washington, DC, a list of the labor
  condition applications. Such list is by employer, showing the occupational
  classification(s), wage rate(s), number of foreign workers sought, period(s) of
  intended employment, and date(s) of need for each employer's application.
