  Grants: Quarterly financial reports are required.                                
Audits:                                                                            
  Employer has to make a filed labor condition application and necessary           
  supporting documentation available for public examination at the employer's      
  principal place of business in the United States, or at the place of employment  
  within one working day after the date on which the labor condition application is
  filed with the Employment and Training Administration. Complaints concerning     
  misrepresentation in the attestation or failure of the employer to carry out the 
  terms of the attestation may be filed with the Wage and Hour Division,           
  Employment Standards Administration, Department of Labor. The                    
  Administrator, Wage and Hour Division, performs the entire Secretary's           
  investigative and enforcement functions under 8 U.S.C. 1182(n) and subparts I    
  and K of 29 C.F.R. Part 504.                                                     
Records:                                                                           
  Employer shall make the Labor Condition Application (LCA) and necessary          
  supporting documentation available for public examination at the employer's      
  principal place of business in the United States or at the place of employment   
  within one working day after the date on which the LCA is filed with             
  Employment and Training Administration.                                          
Account Identification:                                                            
  16-0172-0-1-504; 16-0179-0-1-999; 16-0180-0-1-504.                               
Obligations:                                                                       
  (Federal salaries and expenses) FY 07 $9,000,000; FY 08 est $11,000,000; and     
  FY 09 est $14,000,000 (Formula grants) FY 07 $13,000,000; FY 08 est              
  $13,000,000; and FY 09 est $18,000,000.                                          
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                         
  Not applicable.                                                                  
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                           
  In fiscal year 2006, the Office of Foreign Labor Certification issued 385,835    
  LCA determinations. In the H-2A program, OFLC certified 6,550 employers          
  and 59,112 slots for foreign workers. In the H-2B program, employers requested   
  certification of 247,218 workers (199,734 certified).                            
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                           
  Further information concerning the program may be found at 20 CFR 655.           
Regional or Local Office:                                                          
  Contact the appropriate State Workforce Agency (See Appendix IV) or              
  Employment and Training Administration National Processing Center. The           
  following addresses, phone numbers, and FAX numbers should be used by            
  employers and by State Workforce Agencies for either inquiries or the            
  forwarding of applications materials, as appropriate. Please note, for all       
  application materials, inquiries, and other correspondence sent to either the    
  Atlanta or Chicago National Processing Center, or the ETA National Office,       
  envelopes should be clearly marked according to the appropriate program type,    
  i.e. H-1B, H-1B1, E-3, H-2A, H-2B, or D-1. Atlanta Processing Center Address:    
  U.S. Department of Labor, Employment and Training Administration, Harris         
  Tower, 233 Peachtree Street, Suite 410, Atlanta, GA 30303 Phone: (404) 893-      
  0101 FAX: (404) 893-4642. Chicago Processing Center Address: U.S.                
  Department of Labor, Employment and Training Administration, 844 North           
  Rush Street, 12th Floor, Chicago, IL 60611 Phone: (312) 886-8000 FAX: (312)      
  886-1688.                                                                        
Headquarters Office:                                                               
  Administrator, Office of Foreign Labor Certification, Department of Labor, 200   
  Constitution Avenue, N.W., C-4312, Washington, DC 20210. Telephone: (202)        
  693-3010. Contact: William L. Carlson.                                           
Web Site Address:                                                                  
  http://www.foreignlaborcert.doleta.gov/.                                         
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                  
  17.272, Permanent Labor Certification for Foreign Workers.                       
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                       
  Not applicable.

                                                                                   
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

                                                                                   
  Not applicable.

                                                                                   
                                                                                   
17.274 YOUTHBUILD                                                                  
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                    
  EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF                            
  LABOR                                                                            
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                     
  Workforce Investment Act(WIA) of 1998, Title I, Subtitle D, Section 173A,        
  YouthBuild Program, Public Law 109-281,Public Law 105-220, 20 U.S.C.             
  9201.                                                                            
OBJECTIVES:                                                                        
  Grant funds will be used to provide disadvantaged youth with: the education and  
  employment skills necessary to achieve economic self sufficiency in occupations  
  in high demand and postsecondary education and training opportunities;           
  opportunities for meaningful work and service to their communities; and          
  opportunities to develop employment and leadership skills and a commitment to    
  community development among youth in low-income communities. As part of          
  their programming, YouthBuild grantees will tap the energies and talents of      
                                                                                   


                                                                              11-08
  disadvantaged youth to increase the supply of permanent affordable housing for
  homeless individuals and low-income families and to assist youth develop the
  leadership, learning, and high-demand occupational skills needed to succeed in
  today's global economy.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The funds must be used for: (1) Education and Workforce Activities, such as:
  basic skills instruction and remedial education; language instruction educational
  programs for individuals with limited English proficiency; secondary education
  services and activities, including tutoring, study skills training, and dropout
  prevention activities, designed to lead to the attainment of a secondary school
  diploma, General Education Development (GED) credential, or other State-
  recognized equivalent (including recognized alternative standards for individuals
  with disabilities); counseling and assistance in obtaining postsecondary
  education and required financial aid; alternative secondary school services; work
  experience and skills training (coordinated, to the maximum extent feasible, with
  pre-apprenticeship and registered apprenticeship programs) in housing
  rehabilitation and construction activities; occupational skills training; and other
  paid and unpaid work experiences, including internships and job shadowing. (2)
  Counseling services and related activities, such as comprehensive guidance and
  counseling on drug and alcohol abuse and referral; (3) Youth development
  activities, such as: community service and peer-centered activities encouraging
  responsibility and other positive social behaviors, and activities related to youth
  policy committees that allow YouthBuild participants to engage in local policy
  and decision-making related to the program. (4) Supportive services and
  provision of need-based stipends necessary to enable individuals to participate in
  the program. (5) Supportive services to assist individuals, for a period not to
  exceed 12 months after the completion of training, in obtaining or retaining
  employment, or applying for and transitioning to postsecondary education; and
  job search and assistance. (6) Supervision and training for participants in the
  rehabilitation or construction of housing, including residential housing for
  homeless individuals or low-income families, or transitional housing for
  homeless individuals. (7) Supervision and training for participants in the
  rehabilitation or construction of community and other public facilities. (8)
  Payment of a portion of the administrative costs of the grantee. (9) Mentoring of
  participants by qualified adults (10) Provision of wages, stipends, or benefits to
  participants in the program. (11) Ongoing training and technical assistance for
  staff that are related to developing and carrying out the program. (12) Follow-up
  services. (13) Equipment and/or supplies related to the YouthBuild activities
  funded through this grant.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible applicants for these grants are public or private nonprofit agency or
  organization (including a consortium of such agencies or organizations),
  including: community-based organizations; faith-based organizations; an entity
  carrying out activities under this WIA, such as a local workforce investment
  board or One-Stop Career Center; a community action agency; a State or local
  housing development agency; an Indian tribe or other agency primarily serving
  Indians; a community development corporation; a State or local youth service
  conservation corps; or any other relevant public or private nonprofit entity that
  provides education or employment training and can meet the required elements
  of the grant.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  An eligible youth is an individual who is (1) between the ages of 16 and 24 on
  the date of enrollment; and (2) a member of a disadvantaged youth population
  such as a member of a low-income family, a youth in foster care (including
  youth aging out of foster care), a youth offender, a youth who is an individual
  with a disability, a child of an incarcerated parent, or a migrant youth; and (3) a
  school dropout. Up to (but not more than) 25 percent of the participants in the
  program may be youth who do not meet the education and disadvantaged criteria
  above but who are: (1) basic skills deficient, despite attainment of a secondary
  school diploma, General Education Development (GED) credential, or other
  State-recognized equivalent (including recognized alternative standards for
  individuals with disabilities); or (2) have been referred by a local secondary
  school for participation in a YouthBuild program leading to the attainment of a
  secondary school diploma.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Grantees must demonstrate an adequate organizational capacity to implement a
  YouthBuild program. Additionally, grantees must provide evidence of the
  capacity to track and report performance outcomes.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None except as specified in solicitations. This program is excluded from
  coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Grants for projects are awarded on a competitive basis, announced in
  Solicitation for Grant Applications (SGAs) in the Federal Register and also on
  ETA's Internet website at http://www.doleta.gov. To compete for a grant,
  organizations develop a proposal and budget that demonstrate how the
  organization will provide services to a targeted population. The SGA provides
  all of the necessary information for applying for federal assistance.
                                                                                   657
