  the Section 503 and veterans programs, complainants may request a review by      
  the Deputy Assistant Secretary for OFCCP within 30 days of notification of a     
  finding of no violation, or where the Director decides not to initiate           
  administrative or legal proceedings against the contractor.                      
Renewals:                                                                          
  Not applicable.                                                                  
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                 
  Not applicable.                                                                  
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                  
Reports:                                                                           
  Not applicable.                                                                  
Audits:                                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                  
Records:                                                                           
  Not applicable.                                                                  
Account Identification:                                                            
  16-0105-0-1-505.                                                                 
Obligations:                                                                       
  (Salaries and Expenses, Labor Department only) FY 07 $85,622; FY 08 est          
  $84,060; and FY 09 est $92,212.                                                  
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                         
  Not applicable.

                                                                                   
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

                                                                                   
  During fiscal year 2005, OFCCP completed over 2,734 compliance evaluations,

                                                                                   
  covering more than three million workers. Financial remedies totalling over $45

                                                                                   
  million were obtained for minority, female, and disabled workers. (More

                                                                                   
  information is available to the public on the OFCCP web page

                                                                                   
  (http://www.dol.gov/esa/ofccp/).

                                                                                   
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

                                                                                   
  Equal Employment Opportunity, Executive Order 11246 as amended by

                                                                                   
  Executive Orders 11375 and 12086; Regulations 41 CFR Part 60-1, Obligations

                                                                                   
  of Contractors and Subcontractors; 41 CFR Part 60-2, Affirmative Action

                                                                                   
  Programs (Revised Order 4); 41 CFR Part 60-3, Uniform Guidelines on

                                                                                   
  Employee Selection Procedures (1978); 41 CFR Part 60-4, Construction

                                                                                   
  Contractors Affirmative Action Requirements; 41 CFR Part 60-20, Sex

                                                                                   
  Discrimination Guidelines; 41 CFR Part 60-30, Rules of Practice for

                                                                                   
  Administrative Proceedings; 41 CFR Part 60-40, Examination and Copying of

                                                                                   
  OFCCP Documents; 41 CFR Part 60-50, Guidelines on Discrimination Because

                                                                                   
  of Religion or National Origin; 41 CFR Part 60-250, Affirmative Action and

                                                                                   
  Nondiscrimination Obligations of Contractors and Subcontractors regarding

                                                                                   
  special Disabled Veterans and Veterans of the Vietnam Era; 41 CFR Part 60-       
  741, Affirmative Action and Nondiscrimination Obligations of Contractors and     
  Subcontractors regarding Individuals with Disabilities. Questions and Answers    
  on the Federal Executive Agency Uniform Guidelines on Employee Selection         
  Procedures, March 1979, 44 CFR 11996. There is no charge for these materials.    
Regional or Local Office:                                                          
  See Appendix IV of the Catalog for addresses and telephone numbers of regional   
  offices of the Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, listed under the  
  Employment Standards Administration, Department of Labor.                        
Headquarters Office:                                                               
  Deputy Assistant Secretary, Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs,      
  Employment Standards Administration, Department of Labor, Washington, DC         
  20210. Telephone: (202) 693-0101. Contact: Charles E. James, Sr., Deputy         
  Assistant Secretary for Federal Contract Compliance Programs.                    
Web Site Address:                                                                  
  http://www.dol.gov.                                                              
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                  
  16.101, Equal Employment Opportunity; 17.207, Employment Service/Wagner-

                                                                                   
  Peyser Funded Activities; 29.001, Clearinghouse Services, Civil Rights

                                                                                   
  Discrimination Complaints; 30.001, Employment Discrimination_Title VII of        
  the Civil Rights Act of 1964; 93.001, Civil Rights and Privacy Rule Compliance   
  Activities.                                                                      
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                       
  Not applicable.

                                                                                   
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

                                                                                   
  Not applicable.

                                                                                   
                                                                                   
17.302 LONGSHORE AND HARBOR WORKERS'                                               
COMPENSATION                                                                       
                                                                                   
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                    
  OFFICE OF WORKERS' COMPENSATION PROGRAMS, EMPLOYMENT                             
  STANDARDS ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF LABOR                                    
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                     
  Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act as extended, Public Laws          
  92-576, and 98-426; 5 U.S.C. 8171; 33 U.S.C. 901-952; 42 U.S.C. 1651; 42         
  U.S.C. 1701; 43 U.S.C. 1331.                                                     
OBJECTIVES:                                                                        
  To provide compensation for disability or death resulting from injury, including 


                                                                              11-08
  occupational disease, to eligible private employees.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments with Unrestricted Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  This program provides income replacement and supplement; schedule awards
  for the loss of sight or hearing, dismemberment, disfigurement etc., medical
  expenses (including hospital care); and funeral expenses up to $3,000. Benefits
  are paid by private insurance carriers or self-insured employers. Appropriated
  Federal funds are available in certain cases of permanent total disability, and
  death.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Longshore workers, harbor workers, and certain other employees engaged in
  maritime employment on the navigable waters of the United States and
  adjoining pier and dock areas, employees engaged in activities on the Outer
  Continental Shelf, employees of Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentalities,
  employees of private employers engaged in work outside the United States under
  contracts with the United States Government, and others as specified, including
  survivors of the above. Employees of private concerns in the District of
  Columbia and their survivors are eligible for benefits under an extension of the
  Act, applicable to injuries or deaths based upon employment events that
  occurred prior to July 26, 1982. Puerto Rico is not covered by the Longshore and
  Harbor Workers' Compensation Act.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Longshore workers, harbor workers, and certain other employees engaged in
  maritime employment on the navigable waters of the United States and
  adjoining pier and dock areas, employees engaged in activities on the Outer
  Continental Shelf, employees of nonappropriated fund instrumentalities,
  employees of private employers engaged in work outside of the United States
  under contracts with the United States Government, and other as specified,
  including survivors of the above. Employees of private concerns in the District
  of Columbia and their survivors are eligible for benefits under an extension of
  the Act, applicable to injuries or deaths based upon employment events that
  occurred prior to July 26, 1982. Puerto Rico is not covered by the Longshore and
  Harbor Workers' Compensation Act.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Necessary documentation is developed when claim is filed by
  employee/employer or insurance carrier. The claimant may be required to submit
  to physical examination.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Employee or his or her survivor files written claim for compensation (Form LS-
  203 or LS-262) to the local district office of the Office of Workers'
  Compensation Programs (OWCP). Employer may pay benefits voluntarily.
Award Procedure:
  Authority to adjudicate claims informally under this program rests with the
  District Director in (OWCP) district offices. Claims unresolved on voluntary
  basis are referred for formal hearing under the Administrative Procedure Act.
Deadlines:
  Claim must be filed within one year after (a) the injury or death (2 years if injury
  is an occupational disease which does not immediately result in death or
  disability), or (b) the last compensation payment. Time begins to run when
  prudent person should have been aware of relationship between injury or death
  and employment. For hearing loss claims, time does not begin to run until an
  audiogram together with a report showing a hearing loss, is given claimant.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Insurance carrier or self-insured employer must pay compensation after 14 days
  of having knowledge of an injury causing disability or death, or controvert
  claim.
Appeals:
  Application for modification of awards must be filed within 1 year after (a) the
  last compensation payment, or (b) rejection of a claim by an Administrative Law
  Judge or District Director Office of Workers' Compensation Programs. Appeal
  from Administrative Law Judge's decision must be filed within 30 days; Appeals
  from Benefits Review Board decision must be filed within 60 days.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Not applicable.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Injury: The period of total or partial disability with no monetary limit. Death:
  Spouse - until death or remarriage; children - until age 18 or to age 23 if
  qualified as a student as defined in the Act. Employers or their insurance carriers
  are required to begin compensation within 14 days of (a) knowledge of the
  injury or death or (b) injured employee's report of loss of wages. Payments are
  generally disbursed on a bi-weekly basis.
Reports:
  Not applicable.
Audits:
  Not applicable.
                                                                                    659
