  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                     
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Persons having knowledge of wage and employment practices which are not in         
  compliance with the minimum standards of these acts, and persons requesting        
  additional information concerning these standards, should contact the nearest      
  office of the Wage and Hour Division, listed in the telephone Directory under      
  United States Government, Labor Department. If no listing is shown for your        
  locality, contact the nearest district office of the Wage and Hour Division listed 
  in Appendix IV of the Catalog under the Employment Standards Administration.       
   Information should be provided describing the type of business and the nature     
  of the work performed. Unless otherwise authorized, the names of persons           
  making inquiries are kept confidential to the maximum extent possible under        
  existing law. For Federal construction contracts or Federal service contracts

  subject to revailing wage requirements, the contracting agency must obtain a       
  wage determination issued by the Wage and Hour Division. The wage

  determination must be furnished to bidders and made a part of the contract along   
  with certain contract stipulations.

Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Deadlines:                                                                           
  For most of the Acts, a 2-year statute of limitations applies to the recovery of   
  back wages; in the case of willful violations, a three-year limitation applies. Any
  action against an employer for violation of the Employee Polygraph Protection      
  Act must be filed within three years of the alleged violation.                     
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Appeals:                                                                             
  An appeal process is available where child labor civil money penalties are         
  assessed, where civil money penalties are assessed for minimum wage and            
  overtime violations, and under the Government contracts statutes.                  
Renewals:                                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Reports:                                                                             
  Federal and federally assisted construction contractors must submit information    
  with respect to wages paid to contracting agencies.                                
Audits:                                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Records:                                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Account Identification:                                                              
  16-0105-0-1-505.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Salaries and Expenses) FY 07 $177,286; FY 08 $185,092 and FY 09 est               
  $202,832.                                                                          
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  Not applicable.                                                                    
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  The Employment Standards Administration's Wage and Hour Division (WHD)             
  recovered more than $196 million in back wages in fiscal year 2004. Back wage      
  collections have increased steadily since fiscal year 2001, with record breaking   
  amounts collected in fiscal year 2003. The number of workers receiving back        
  wages has increased by over 33 percent since fiscal year 2001. The average         
  number of cases concluded by WHD investigators in each fiscal year has shown       
  a steady increase from just over 40 cases concluded per investigator in 2001 to    
  46 in 2004, as WHD increased its enforcement productivity. WHD investigators       
  have also significantly decreased the number of days it takes to conclude a        
  complaint case. The agency concluded some 37,842 compliance actions in             
  fiscal year 2004. WHD assessed nearly $9 million in civil money penalties this     
  past fiscal year, a slight decrease from the nearly $10 million assessed in 2003.  
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  Publications furnished free in limited quantities: "Handy Reference Guide to the   
  Fair Labor Standards Act," "A Guide to the Walsh-Healey Public Contracts           
  Act," "Guide to the Service Contract Act," "A Guide to the Child Labor             
  Provisions of the FLSA" (Nonagricultural and Agricultural Occupations)             
  "Compliance Guide to the Family and Medical Leave Act." Additional technical       
  and nontechnical materials are also available at no cost.                          
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  Persons having knowledge of wage and employment practices which are not in         
  compliance with the minimum standards of these acts, and persons requesting        
  information or publications should contact the nearest office of the Wage and      
  Hour Division, listed in the telephone directory under United States               
  Government, Labor Department. If no listing is shown for your locality, contact    
  the nearest district office of the Wage and Hour Division listed in Appendix IV    
  of the Catalog under the Employment Standards Administration.                      
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Administrator, Wage and Hour Division, Employment Standards                        


                                                                                11-08
  Administration, Department of Labor, Washington, DC 20210. Telephone:
  (202) 693-0051.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.dol.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  17.201, Registered Apprenticeship and Other Training; 17.203, Labor
  Certification for Alien Workers; 17.306, Consumer Credit Protection; 17.308,
  Farm Labor Contractor Registration.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
17.306 CONSUMER CREDIT PROTECTION
   (Federal Wage Garnishment Law)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF
  LABOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Consumer Credit Protection Act, Public Law 90-321, 5 U.S.C. 1671-1677, as
  amended; Public Law 95-30.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide restrictions on the amount of an employee's wages or salary which
  may be garnisheed, and prohibit employers from discharging employees by
  reason of garnishment for any one indebtedness.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Advisory Services and Counseling; Investigation of Complaints.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The general rules for applying the Federal restrictions on garnishment, effective
  September 1, 1997, are: If an individual's weekly disposable earnings are
  $154.50 or less, no amount may be garnisheed; if the weekly disposable earnings
  are more than $154.50 but less than $206.00, only the amount in excess of
  $154.50 may be garnisheed; and if the weekly disposable earnings are in excess
  of $206.00 or more, 25 percent of disposable earnings may be garnisheed. The
  Act, as amended, limits court orders for the support of any person to 50 percent
  of the disposable earnings of an individual supporting another spouse or child
  and to 60 percent of disposable earnings if not. An additional 5 percent may be
  garnished for support payments more than 12 weeks in arrears. The order must
  be issued by a court of competent jurisdiction or in accordance with an
  administrative procedure, which is established by law, which affords substantial
  due process, and which is subject to judicial review. The restrictions do not
  apply under Federal bankruptcy proceedings for wage-earners, nor do they apply
  to debts due for State or Federal taxes. In addition, garnishments issued under
  the laws of any State may be exempted from the operation of the Federal law
  where the Secretary of Labor determines that such laws provide substantially
  similar restrictions. Under no circumstances may an employee be discharged
  from employment by reason of garnishment for any one indebtedness, although
  State laws may provide additional protection.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Any person whose earnings have been subjected to garnishment is entitled to the
  protection provided by the Act in the United States, the District of Columbia,
  Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands; Outer Continental Shelf lands defined in the
  Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (Chapter 345, 67 Stat. 462); American
  Samoa, Guam, Wake Island; and Johnston Island. Under the law, earnings are
  defined as compensation paid or payable for personal services, including wages,
  salary, commissions, bonuses, and including periodic payments pursuant to a
  pension or retirement program.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Any person whose earnings have been subjected to garnishment.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Persons having knowledge of wage and employment practices which are not in
  compliance with the minimum standards of these acts, and persons seeking
  advice or assistance concerning the application of the Federal wage garnishment
  law to specific situations, including persons seeking remedy to an illegal action
  under the law, should contact the nearest office of the Employment Standards
  Administration, Wage and Hour Division listed in the telephone directory under
  United States Government, Labor Department. If no listing is shown for you
  locality, contact the nearest district office of the Wage and Hour Division listed
  in Appendix IV of the Catalog under the Employment Standards Administration.
   Unless otherwise authorized, the names of persons making inquiries are kept
  confidential to the maximum extent possible under existing law.
Award Procedure:
  Not applicable.
Deadlines:
                                                                                  661
