  None.                                                                                
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Appeals:                                                                               
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Renewals:                                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Reports:                                                                               
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Audits:                                                                                
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Records:

                                                                                       
  Not applicable.

                                                                                       
Account Identification:

                                                                                       
  16-0105-0-1-505.

                                                                                       
Obligations:

  (Salaries and Expenses) Not Separately Identifiable. (Note: Obligations for          
  17.306 are included in program 17.303.)                                              
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                      
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  Joint agreements to refer inquiries, complaints and leads have been entered into     
  by the Employment Standards Administration and the Federal Trade                     
  Commission.                                                                          
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  Publications furnished free in limited quantities: Pamphlet: The Federal Wage        
  Garnishment Law, Basic Information. Regulations, 29 CFR Part 870, Restriction        
  on Garnishment.                                                                      
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  Persons having knowledge of wage and employment practices which are not in           
  compliance with the minimum standards of these acts, and persons requesting          
  information or publications should contact the nearest Office of the Wage and        
  Hour Division, listed in the telephone directory under United States                 
  Government, Labor Department. If no listing is shown for your locality, contact      
  the nearest district office of the Employment Standards Administration, Wage         
  and Hour Division, listed in the Appendix IV of the Catalog.                         
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Administrator, Wage and Hour Division, Employment Standards                          
  Administration, Department of Labor, Washington, DC 20210. Telephone:                
                                                                                       
  (202) 693-0051.

                                                                                       
Web Site Address:

                                                                                       
  http://www.dol.gov.

                                                                                       
RELATED PROGRAMS:

                                                                                       
  None.

EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  Not applicable.                                                                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  Not applicable.                                                                      
                                                                                       
                                                                                       
17.307 COAL MINE WORKERS' COMPENSATION                                                 
      (Black Lung)                                                                     
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  OFFICE OF WORKERS' COMPENSATION PROGRAMS, EMPLOYMENT                                 
  STANDARDS ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF LABOR                                        
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Federal Mine Safety and Health Amendments Act of 1977, as amended, Public            
  Laws 91-173, 92-303, 95-239, and 97-119.                                             
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To provide benefits to coal miners who have become totally disabled due to coal      
  workers' pneumoconiosis (CWP), and to widows and other surviving dependents          
  of miners who have died of this disease.                                             
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Direct Payments with Unrestricted Use.                                               
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Monthly cash benefits are paid to coal miners disabled from coal workers'            
  pneumoconiosis and to widows and other survivors of miners who have died of          
  this disease. There are no restrictions on the use of these benefits by a            
  beneficiary. Medical payments for treatment related to coal workers'                 
  pneumoconiosis are available to miners only after January 1, 1974.                   
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  The miner (including some workers involved in coal transportation in and             
  around mines and coal mine construction workers) must have worked in the             
  Nation's coal mines or a coal preparation facility and become "totally disabled"     
  (as defined in the Act) from pneumoconiosis. The applicant may be able to work       
  in areas other than coal mines and still be eligible for benefits. Benefits to miner 


662                                                                              11-08

  shall be reduced on account of excess earnings as determined under sections
  203(b) through (1) of the Social Security Act for claims filed on or after January
  1, 1982. Widows and other surviving dependents of coal miners whose death
  resulted from coal workers' pneumoconiosis are also eligible for benefits with
  earnings offsets applicable to certain classes of dependents. Applicants can
  reside anywhere in the world at the time they apply.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Disabled coal miners, widows and other surviving dependents of the deceased.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Medical tests, at Department of Labor expense, which include an x-ray,
  pulmonary function study, physical examination, and blood gas tests. Proof of
  work in or around a coal mine or coal preparation facility. Also proof of death,
  relationship and dependency required for widows and other survivors applying.
  Identification of a responsible mine operator is made as specified in regulations
  published in the Code of Federal Regulations (20 CFR 725).
Preapplication Coordination:
  Applicants are required to state on the claim form whether a claim for disability
  benefits due to the same condition has been filed under any State or other
  Federal workers' compensation law. Benefits received as a result of such a claim
  could be offset against Federal benefits. This program is excluded from
  coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Telephone, write-in, or visit the local Division of Coal Mine Workers'
  Compensation district or local office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.
Award Procedure:
  After review of the application is completed, the applicant will be notified by
  mail.
Deadlines:
  A miner must file a claim for benefits within 3 years after a medical
  determination of total disability due to pneumoconiosis or within 3 years after
  the date of enactment of Public Law 95-239, whichever comes later, (Black
  Lung Benefits Reform Act of 1977). There are no time limitations for dependent
  survivors to file claims.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 2 months to 8 months for initial findings depending on availability of
  supporting evidence.
Appeals:
  Notify Office of Workers' Compensation Programs (OWCP), Employment
  Standards Administration. The appeal process includes formal hearings, Benefits
  Review Board consideration, and review by Federal courts, as appropriate.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Not applicable.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The period of total disability with no monetary limit. Death: Spouse - until death
  or remarriage; children - until age 18 or to age 23 if qualified as a student as
  defined by the Act unless under a disability as defined in Section 223(d) of the
  Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C. 423(d). Employers or their insurance carriers are
  required to begin compensation within 30 days of the initial determination of
  eligibility. Payments are disbursed on a monthly basis.
Reports:
  Any change in an eligibility requirement or in a factor affecting the amount of
  benefits, such as, State workers' compensation awards, or change in status of a
  dependent, must be reported to the Office of Workers' Compensation Programs
  when it occurs.
Audits:
  None.
Records:
  None.
Account Identification:
  20-8144-0-7-601.
Obligations:
  (Benefits) FY 07 $303,373; FY 08 est $276,221; and FY 09 est $250,130.
  These are benefit under Part B only Est. Part C Obligations: FY 07 $224,000,
  FY 08 203,000, FY 09 183,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  On January 1, 2006, new monthly rates went into effect for Black Lung benefits
  that included a 2.1 percent increase over the 2005 benefit amounts. The new
  rates are as follows: Part-B BLACK LUNG MONTHLY BENEFIT RATES
  (claims approved by the Social Security Administration - payments received
  around the 3rd of each month) Primary beneficiary.. $574.00 Primary
  beneficiary and one dependent.. $861.00 Primary beneficiary and two
  dependents ... $1005.00 Primary beneficiary and three or more dependents..
  $1,149.00 Part-C BLACK LUNG MONTHLY BENEFIT RATES (claims
  approved by the Department of Labor - payments received around the 15th of
  each month) Primary beneficiary. $574.60 Primary beneficiary and one
  dependent.. $861.80 Primary beneficiary and two dependents.. $1,005.50
  Primary beneficiary and three or more dependents.. $1,149.10.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
