  Over 102,000 beneficiaries and 18,000 dependents received benefits in 2005.       
  During Fiscal Year 2005, the Black Lung Disability Trust Fund provided over       
  $292 million in monthly benefits to beneficiaries. DCMWC administered             
  another $380 million in monthly benefits under Part B. The Trust Fund paid out    
  over $54 million for the diagnosis and treatment of miners for pneumoconiosis.    
  The Division of Coal Mine Workers Compensation also monitored direct              
  monthly benefits paid to beneficiaries by coal mine operators or their insurance  
  companies.                                                                        
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  Code of Federal Regulations, Title 20, Parts 410.401 et seq., 718, 722, 725, 726, 
  and 727. Also, Black Lung Amendments of 1981, 30 U.S.C. 901 et seq. "Black        
  Lung Benefits," Fact Sheet No. ESA 91-14.                                         
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  Local Division of Coal Mine Workers' Compensation district offices are listed in  
  Appendix IV of the Catalog.                                                       
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Division of Coal Mine Workers' Compensation, Office of Workers'                   
  Compensation Programs, Employment Standards Administration, Department of         
  Labor, Washington, DC 20210. Telephone: (202) 693-0046. Contact: James L.         
  DeMarce, Director.                                                                
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  http://www.dol.gov/esa/regs/compliance/owcp/bltable.htm .                         
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  None.                                                                             
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  Not applicable.                                                                   
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                   
  Not applicable.                                                                   
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
17.308 FARM LABOR CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION                                           
   (Crew Leader)                                                                    
                                                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     
  EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF                                
  LABOR                                                                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                      
  Migrant and Seasonal Agricultural Worker Protection Act, Public Law 97-470,       
  as amended, 96 Stat. 2583; 29 U.S.C. 1801-1872.                                   
OBJECTIVES:                                                                         
  To provide protection in the areas of wages, housing and transportation for       
  migrant and seasonal agricultural workers.                                        
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                
  Advisory Services and Counseling; Investigation of Complaints.                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                          
  The program requires the contractor, agricultural employer or agricultural        
  association to keep certain records and to comply with appropriate Federal and    
  State safety and health standards for transportation and housing. It requires that
  contractors, agricultural employers and agricultural associations transporting    
  migrant or seasonal farmworkers obtain motor vehicle liability insurance or, in   
  some instances, Workers' Compensation Insurance and that they insure the          
  migrant/seasonal agricultural worker and his/her personal property against injury 
  or damage arising out of a transportation accident. Contractors, agricultural     
  employers and agricultural associations must also comply with the applicable      
  regulations of the Department of Transportation, Bureau of Motor Carrier          
  Safety. The Act distinguishes between the traditional farm labor contractor and   
  fixed-situs agricultural employers. It provides important worker protections      
  such as vehicle safety and insurance coverage against both personal liability and 
  property damage while being transported in connection with their employment;      
  housing safety and health; disclosure of wages, hours and working conditions;     
  maintenance of necessary records and furnishing to workers itemized               
  information concerning pay and withholding. It further provides exemptions for    
  both family businesses and small businesses. Any farm labor contractor who, for   
  any money or other valuable consideration paid or promised to be paid, recruits,  
  solicits, hires, employs, furnishes, or transports any migrant or seasonal        
  agricultural worker (excluding members of his/her immediate family) for           
  agricultural employment, must register under the Act, unless qualified for        
  specific exemptions. Agricultural employers and agricultural associations must    
  comply with the worker protection standards, but are not required to register.    
  Persons having knowledge of any practices or omissions which are not in           
  compliance with the requirements of the Act, and persons requesting additional    
  information concerning the Act are encouraged to write, telephone or visit the    
  nearest State employment service office or the nearest Wage and Hour Division     
  Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog. Information should be provided       
  describing the type of business activity and the nature of the work performed.    
  The names of persons making inquiries are treated in complete confidence.         
  Users of the services of a farm labor contractor are prohibited from engaging the 
  services of one who is unregistered. Failure to comply with this Act and its      
                                                                                    
  regulations may result in criminal prosecution, civil injunctive action, civil

                                                                                    
  money damages and assessment of civil money penalties of up to $1,000 for

                                                                                    
                                                                               11-08
  each violation.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Farm labor contractors and their full-time or regular employees who recruit,
  solicit, hire, employ, furnish or transport migrant or seasonal agricultural
  workers for any money or other valuable consideration paid or promised to be
  paid for agricultural employment, must register with the Department of Labor.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Migrant and seasonal agricultural workers.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Certificate of Registration or Employee Certificate of Registration.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Farm labor contractors and their full-time or regular employees who recruit,
  solicit, hire, employ, furnish, or transport migrant or seasonal agricultural
  workers for any money or other valuable consideration paid or promised to be
  paid for agricultural employment, should contact the local office of the
  Employment Service or the nearest district office of the Wage and Hour Division
  for application forms and assistance.
Award Procedure:
  Not applicable.
Deadlines:
  Farm labor contractor certificates expire twelve months from date of issuance
  unless earlier suspended or revoked. Farm labor contractor employee renewal
  certificates expire from twelve to twenty-four months after revewal.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Applications for Farm labor contractor employee certificates of registration or
  farm labor contractor employee certificates of registration are usually processed
  within 2 to 3 weeks.
Appeals:
  Applicants whose applications have been denied or revoked have 30 days to
  request a hearing on the decision to refuse to issue, refuse to renew or revoke.
  Persons who have been assessed civil money penalties have 30 days to request a
  hearing on the decision to assess.
Renewals:
  Same procedure as making initial application. When application for renewal of a
  valid certificate is submitted prior to at least 30 days before the expiration date,
  the applicant may continue to operate under the terms of the existing certificate
  until a final determination is made on the renewal application.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Not applicable.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Not applicable.
Reports:
  A registered farm labor contractor is required to keep the Department of Labor
  informed of his/her permanent address and any change of vehicle which is
  operated by him/her or caused to be used to transport workers or change of
  housing for workers if such housing is controlled or owned by him or her.
Audits:
  Not applicable.
Records:
  Any employer subject to the Act is required to keep payroll records.
Account Identification:
  16-0105-0-1-505.
Obligations:
  (Salaries and Expenses) Not Separately Identifiable. (Note: Obligations for
  17.308 are included in program 17.303.)
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Not applicable.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Program emphasis continues to be placed upon registration activities and
  achieving greater compliance by farm labor contractors with the provisions of
  the Migrant and Seasonal Agricultural Worker Protection Act. In fiscal year
  2004 the agency collected over $1,194,000 in back wages for approximately
  3,700 agricultural workers.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Migrant and Seasonal Agricultural Worker Protection Act. 29 CFR Part 500,
  contains information about the Act. Fact sheet ESA-13, "Agricultural Workers--
  Your Rights Under the Migrant and Seasonal Agricultural Worker Protection
  Act," is available free of charge in limited quantities.
Regional or Local Office:
  Persons are encouraged to communicate with the State Employment Service
  Office, or contact the nearest Wage and Hour Division Office listed in the
  telephone directory under United States Government, Labor Department
  Employment Standards Administration. If no listing is shown for your locality,
  contact the nearest district office of the Wage and Hour Division listed in
  Appendix IV of the Catalog under the Employment Standards Administration.
Headquarters Office:
  Administrator, Wage and Hour Division, Employment Standards
  Administration, Department of Labor, Washington, DC 20210. Telephone:
  (202) 693-0051.
                                                                                    663
