  combines online and face-to-face resources. Participants have access to online       
  mentors (e-mentoring), online employment tools, and distance learning                
  opportunities while working with local service providers. A SECURE                   
  WORKFORCE -- Wi$eUp is a financial education demonstration project                   
  targeted to Generation X women ages 22 to 35. The centerpiece of the program         
  is an eight-module curriculum offered online, as well as in a classroom setting in   
  educational institutions and other organizations. In the online program, the         
  curriculum is complemented by an "Ask the Experts" feature, which permits            
  participants to send questions by e-mail to volunteers with financial expertise.     
  Another feature available to participants in both the online and classroom-based     
  versions is a series of monthly one-hour teleconference calls with featured          
  speakers and a question and answer session. The Women's Bureau also                  
  continues to host financial security and education events throughout the country.    
  OUTREACH -- Through its National and Regional offices, web page, speaking            
  engagements, and publications, the Women's Bureau continued to provide up-to-        
  date, consistent, and relevant information and resources to employees,               
  employers, and interested constituents on a variety of work-related topics,          
  including job options, training and employment, flexible work schedules, and         
  women's employment-related statistics.                                               
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  The Women's Bureau regularly updates its website to include new as well as on-       
  going programs, projects and initiatives, utilizing user-friendly options to         
  increase visibility for frequently-visited webpages.                                 
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  Contact the nearest Department of Labor, Women's Bureau regional office in           
  Appendix IV of the Catalog listed under the Office of the Secretary.                 
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Director, Women's Bureau, Office of the Secretary, Department of Labor,              
  Washington, DC 20210. Telephone: (202) 693-6710. Contact: Office of                  
  Information and Support Services, Women's Bureau, Room S3305, Office of the          
  Secretary, Department of Labor, Washington, DC 20210. Telephone: (202) 693-          
  6710.                                                                                
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.dol.gov/wb/                                                               
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  16.101, Equal Employment Opportunity; 17.303, Wage and Hour Standards;               
  29.001, Clearinghouse Services, Civil Rights Discrimination Complaints;              
  30.001, Employment Discrimination_Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.         
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  Not applicable.                                                                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  Not applicable.                                                                      
                                                                                       
17.720 DISABILITY EMPLOYMENT POLICY                                                    
                                                                                       
DEVELOPMENT                                                                            
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  OFFICE OF DISABILITY EMPLOYMENT POLICY, DEPARTMENT OF                                
  LABOR                                                                                
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  The Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2001 Section1(a)(1); Public Law 106-            
  554; 29 U.S.C. 557b.                                                                 
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  The Office of Disability Employment Policy (ODEP) provides national                  
  leadership on disability employment policy to the Department of Labor (DOL)          
  and other Federal agencies. ODEP develops and fosters implementation of              
  comprehensive and integrated disability employment policies and strategies           
  throughout the workforce development system and with employers.                      
  Implementation of these effective policies and practices will increase               
  employment opportunities and the recruitment, retention and promotion of             
  people with disabilities. ODEP's response to low employment rates among              
  people with disabilities is comprehensive and aggressive, and includes securing      
  the active involvement and cooperation among a number of stakeholders,               
  including Federal, State and local government agencies, private and public           
  employers, educational and training institutions, and the disability community.      
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                             
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Uses and use restrictions are detailed in each solicitation for cooperative          
  agreement or grant applications and in each request for proposals. See               
  www.grants.gov, the Federal Register, or FedBizOpps for current Solicitations        
  for Grant Applications (SGAs) and Requests for Proposals (RFPs).                     
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  While individuals are not eligible for ODEP's cooperative agreements and             
  grants, nonprofit and for-profit organizations, State and local government           
  agencies, academic institutions, and other entities are eligible. Eligibility        
  requirements are detailed in each SGA and in RFPs. See www.grants.gov, the           
  Federal Register, or FedBizOpps for current SGAs and RFPs.                           
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Beneficiary eligibility is detailed in each solicitation for cooperative agreement   


672                                                                              11-08

  or grant applications and request for proposals. See www.grants.gov, the Federal
  Register, or FedBizOpps for current SGAs and RFPs.
Credentials/Documentation:
  See www.grants.gov, the Federal Register, or FedBizOpps for current SGAs and
  RFPs.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Coordination requirements are detailed in each solicitation for cooperative
  agreement or grant applications and request for proposals. See www.grants.gov,
  the Federal Register, or FedBizOpps for current SGAs and RFPs. This program
  is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Application procedures are detailed in each solicitation for cooperative
  agreement or grant applications and request for proposals. See www.grants.gov,
  the Federal Register, or FedBizOpps for current SGAs and RFPs.
Award Procedure:
  Competitive cooperative agreement and grant applications, submitted in
  response to a current solicitation for cooperative agreement or grant application,
  will be reviewed by a Federal panel for fidelity to Federal principles, to ensure
  adherence to solicitation for cooperative agreement or grant application
  requirements, and are subject to availability of funds and performance
  achievement. See www.grants.gov, the Federal Register, or FedBizOpps for
  current SGAs and RFPs.
Deadlines:
  Deadlines are detailed in each solicitation for cooperative agreement or grant
  applications and request for proposals. See www.grants.gov, the Federal
  Register, or FedBizOpps for current SGAs and RFPs.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Timeframes are detailed in each solicitation for cooperative agreement or grant
  applications and request for proposals. See www.grants.gov, the Federal
  Register, or FedBizOpps for current SGAs and RFPs.
Appeals:
  Appeal information and contact procedures for each solicitation are contained
  and detailed within the solicitation for cooperative agreement or grant
  application and request for proposals. See www.grants.gov, the Federal Register,
  or FedBizOpps for current SGAs and RFPs.
Renewals:
  Renewal and option year availability is detailed in each solicitation for
  cooperative agreement or grant applications. All awards are based on single-year
  budget authority. Renewal and option year funding, when provided, is subject to
  availability of funds and performance achievement. See www.grants.gov, the
  Federal Register, or FedBizOpps for current SGAs and RFPs.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  ODEP does not conduct solicitations requiring formula or matching
  requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Length of time and phasing of assistance are detailed in each solicitation for
  cooperative agreement or grant applications. See www.grants.gov, the Federal
  Register, or FedBizOpps for current SGAs and RFPs.
Reports:
  All cooperative agreement and grants require quarterly program and financial
  (SF 269 and SF 272) reports as well as a final report. All cooperative agreement
  and grants require cooperation and sharing of program reports with ODEP's
  independent external evaluator. See www.grants.gov, the Federal Register, or
  FedBizOpps for current SGAs and RFPs.
Audits:
  Audits are conducted by the Inspector General, General Accountability Office,
  or independent public accountants selected by the Department of Labor.
Records:
  None.
Account Identification:
  16-0166-0-1-505.
Obligations:
  (Salaries and expenses) FY 07 $27,712,000; FY 08 est. $27,228,000; and FY 09
  est. $12,441,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Previous awards for cooperative agreement, grants and contracts have ranged
  from approximately $15,000 to $3,500,000 per funding year, depending on the
  project needs as detailed in the solicitation for cooperative agreement or grant
  application or proposal and availability of funds. Awards have been to nonprofit
  and for-profit organizations, State and local government agencies, academic
  institutions, and other entities.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Documenting the Unemployment Rate of People with Disabilities Multi-year
  collaborative effort between ODEP and the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) to
  develop a valid and reliable method of measuring the unemployment rate of
  people with disabilities. The results will, for the first time, document the actual
  unemployment rate of people with disabilities. Improving Professional
  Development of Youth Service Practitioners: ODEP developed the "Knowledge,
  Skills, and Abilities of Youth Service Practitioners: The Centerpiece of a
  Successful Workforce Development System," which outlines the knowledge,
