  skills, and abilities (KSAs) needed by professionals to better connect youth with 
  disabilities to workforce development opportunities. 4,500 members of the         
  National Association of Workforce Development Professionals (NAWDP), an           
  organization created in 1989 with start-up funding from DOL, are now offered a    
  youth credential based on the KSAs. The 900 member organizations at the           
  National Partnership for Juvenile Services used the KSAs to develop their Youth   
  Workforce Development Training Curriculum. Increasing Access to Youth             
  Services for Youth with Disabilities: ODEP drafted the language in the Youth      
  Vision Training and Employment Guidance Letter No. 28-05 (TEGL) and other         
  Employment and Training Administration (ETA) policy guidance that                 
  specifically identifies and includes youth with disabilities and their needs with 
  regard to Workforce Investment Act (WIA)-funded programs and services. WIA-       
  funded youth services now explicitly recognize the accommodation needs of         
  youth with disabilities in programs, removing disincentives to serving youth      
  with disabilities, and increasing their access to ETA youth services resources.   
  Improving Transition Plans for Youth with Disabilities: ODEP developed the        
  "Guideposts for Success" (Guideposts), a common language guide of key             
  educational and career development interventions for youth transitioning from     
  high school to post-secondary education and/or employment. Forty-six states are   
  now using the Guideposts to develop better transition improvement plans for       
  thousands of school districts and their students. Maryland and Iowa are using the

  Guideposts as the basis for developing statewide cooperative agreements with      
  local school districts and evaluating state transition programs, respectively.    
  South Carolina, Indiana, Wisconsin and Texas are using the Guideposts to

  replicate ODEP's High School/High Tech demonstration programs. Influencing        
  Employer Policies and Practices: Thousands of employers now have updated,         
  valid and credible information on the low cost of workplace accommodations        
  and the increase in overall company productivity that results from providing      
  accommodations for employees with disabilities. Through an Alliance               
  Agreement with the 210,000 member-strong Society for Human Resource               
  Management (SHRM), SHRM has committed to promoting the employment of              
  people with disabilities through jointly developed training, education, outreach, 
  and technical assistance activities. Promoting Workplace Safety and Security for  
  Federal Employees with Disabilities: ODEP led the development of "Preparing       
  the Workplace for Everyone: Accounting for the Needs of People with               
  Disabilities: A Framework of Emergency Preparedness Guidelines for Federal        
  Agencies" (Framework), for all Federal agencies to use to evaluate and            
  strengthen their emergency plans. Thousands of personnel responsible for          
  effective emergency preparedness, including Federal building managers at the      
  national, regional, and field levels through GSA; human resource and disability   
  program managers through OPM; Federal safety and health officials through         
  OSHA; and others are now using the Framework to ensure that the needs of          
  agency employees with disabilities are considered in all aspects of emergency     
  planning. Ensuring Access to One-Stop Career Centers for People with              
  Disabilities: ODEP and the DOL's Employment and                                   
                                                                                    
  TrainingAdministration jointly produced the WIA Section 188 Disability

                                                                                    
  Checklist and ODEP developed "Strategies and Practices for Effectively Serving

                                                                                    
  all One-Stop Customers: A Framework for Systems Change," both of which

                                                                                    
  increase access to One-Stop Career Centers for people with disabilities.

                                                                                    
  Thousands of One-Stop Career Centers in the workforce system now have a way

                                                                                    
  to measure their compliance with Section 188 of the Workforce Investment Act

                                                                                    
  (WIA). The Workforce System now acknowledges people with disabilities as

                                                                                    
  potential entrepreneurs, encouraging the workforce system to make

                                                                                    
  entrepreneurial training opportunities available. Improving the Workforce

                                                                                    
  Investment System's Effectiveness with 'hard to serve' Customers: ODEP

                                                                                    
  developed customized employment policy for the WIA system that set forth

                                                                                    
  successful models of partnership and leveraging of funds and expertise so that

                                                                                    
  'hard to serve' customers can realize increased employment outcomes. SSI and

                                                                                    
  SSDI; Medicaid; TANF; transition programs under IDEA; and other programs

                                                                                    
  (e.g., mental health agencies, agencies serving persons with mental retardation

                                                                                    
  and developmental disabilities, and independent living programs); and             
  thousands of workforce investment system professionals now use customized         
  employment strategies. Improving Coordination of Employment-Related               
  Transportation Efforts: ODEP collaborated on drafting Executive Order in 2004,    
  which created "United We Ride", comprised of private and public sector            
  partners. Up to $80 million in new funding has been authorized through the        
  Safe, Accountable, Flexible, and Efficient Transportation Equity Act              
  (SAFETEA-LU) for new resources to assist communities in meeting the mobility      
  needs of people with disabilities seeking employment. Thousands of                
  transportation professionals and service providers now have access to             
  employment-related mobility management models (travel navigators,                 
  transportation brokers, and trip planners) to enhance transportation options for  
  workers and job seekers with disabilities.                                        
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  Information about the Office of Disability Employment Policy is located at        
  www.dol.gov/odep. Information and resources on disability employment and          
  other disability-related topics can be found at www.DisabilityInfo.gov, for which 
  ODEP is the managing partner with 22 Federal Agencies.                            
Regional or Local Office:                                                           


                                                                              11-08 
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Office of Disability Employment Policy (ODEP), 200 Constitution Avenue,
  N.W., Room S1303, Washington, DC 20210. Telephone: (202) 693-7880; (202)
  693-7881/TTY; (202)693-7888/FAX. E-mail: infoodep@dol.gov.
Web Site Address:
  www.dol.gov/odep .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Examples of funded technical assistance and research projects that support
  policy development can be found at www.dol.gov/odep .
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Criteria for selecting proposals are detailed in each solicitation for cooperative
  agreement or grant application and request for proposal. Criteria always include
  the availability of ODEP funds, alignment with ODEP's mission to develop
  national policy to reduce barriers to employment for people with disabilities,
  provision of data to support performance reporting, and performance
  achievement. See www.grants.gov, the Federal Register, or FedBizOpps for
  current SGAs and RFPs.
17.801 DISABLED VETERANS' OUTREACH PROGRAM
(DVOP)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR VETERANS'
  EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING, DEPARTMENT OF LABOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Jobs for Veterans Act; Title 38, Part III, Chapter 41, Section 4103A; Public
  Laws 107-288 and 109-461.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide intensive services to meet the employment needs of disabled and
  other eligible veterans; and, to provide maximum emphasis in meeting the
  employment needs of those who are economically or educationally
  disadvantaged, including homeless veterans and veterans with barriers to
  employment.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds must be used only for salaries and expenses and reasonable support of
  Disabled Veterans' Outreach Program (DVOP) Specialists who shall be assigned
  only those duties directly related to meeting the employment needs of eligible
  veterans according to the provisions of 38 U.S.C. 4103A.
Applicant Eligibility:
  The administrative entity designated by each Governor.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Veterans and eligible persons with emphasis on Special Disabled veterans,
  disabled veterans, economically or educationally disadvantaged veterans, and
  veterans with other barriers to employment.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Determination of allowable cost shall be made in accordance with cost principles
  contained in OMB Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review. The standard application forms as
  furnished by the Federal agency and required by OMB Circular No. A-102 (29
  CFR Part 97) must be used for this program.
Application Procedure:
  Standard Form 424, Application for Federal Assistance, submitted to the
  Director for Veterans' Employment and Training (DVET) in each State, as listed
  in Appendix IV along with program narratives and Fiscal Plans in accordance
  with instructions in a Solicitation for Grant Application (SGA) or annual
  modification instructions. The standard application forms as furnished by the
  Federal agency and required by OMB Circular No. A-102 must be used for this
  program. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-
  110.
Award Procedure:
  Awards approved annually by a Department of Labor Grant Officer for the
  Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training (ASVET) are based
  on reviews and recommendations by Regional Administrators for Veterans'
  Employment and Training (RAVETs) and DVETs.
Deadlines:
  Application submittal deadlines established by SGA, distributed by ASVET
  through the Grant Officer for each applicable fiscal year.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Ninety days following the submission of an application pending the availability
  of fiscal year appropriation.
                                                                                   673
