  of major or equivalent, are not entitled to preference unless they qualify as       
  disabled veterans. Ten-point preference is given to those honorably separated       
  veterans who: (1) Qualify as disabled veterans because they have served on          
  active duty in the Armed Forces at any time and have a present service-             
  connected disability or are receiving compensation, disability retirement           
  benefits, or pension from the military or the Department of Veterans Affairs; or    
  (2) are Purple Heart recipients; the spouse of a veteran unable to work because     
  of a service-connected disability; the unmarried widow of certain deceased          
  veterans; and the mother of a veteran who died in service or who is permanently     
  and totally disabled. When applying for Federal jobs, eligible veterans should      
  claim preference on their application or resume. Applicants claiming 10-point       
  preference must complete form SF- 15, Application for 10-Point Veteran              
  Preference. Veterans who are still in the service may be granted 5 points           
  tentative preference on the basis of information contained in their applications,   
                                                                                      
  but they must produce a DD Form 214 prior to appointment to document

                                                                                      
  entitlement to preference. Note: Reservists who are retired from the Reserves but

                                                                                      
  are not receiving retired pay are not considered "retired military" for purposes of

                                                                                      
  veterans' preference. (2) Veterans who have been separated from the armed           
  forces under honorable conditions shortly before completion of 3 years, or          
  completion of 3 years or more of active duty military service are eligible to       
  compete for vacant Federal positions for which the agency making the                
  announcement will accept applications from individuals outside its own              
  workforce under merit promotion procedures. This does not make them                 
  preference eligible, but allows access to certain Federal job openings for which    
  they would otherwise not be entitled to apply. (3) Public Law 94-502 authorizes     
  Federal agencies to provide unpaid training or work experience, as a part of the    
  Department of Veterans Affairs vocational rehabilitation for a disabled veteran.    
  Such training may be designed to provide noncompetitive appointment.                
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Non-disabled veterans, disabled veterans and certain wives or husbands,             
  widows, widowers, and mothers of veterans.                                          
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  For veterans' preference, general proof of honorable separation such as discharge   
  certificate or DD Form 214. In addition, for 10-point preference, a letter from the 
  Department of Veterans Affairs or military department certifying existence of       
  service-connected disability. When the 10-point preference is based on the          
  award of a Purple Heart, official documentation of the award is sufficient.         
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                            
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Application forms are available from Service Centers of the Office of Personnel     
  Management and from Federal agency personnel offices. Veterans eligible for         
  noncompetitive appointment should make personal contact with the Federal            
  agency where they would like to be considered for employment. Veterans who          
  believe that they have not been properly accorded their rights have several         
  different avenues of complaint, depending upon the nature of the complaint and      
  the individual's veteran status: The Veterans Employment Opportunities Act of       
  1998 allows preference and other eligibles to file a complaint with the             
  Department of Labor's Veterans' Employment and Training Service (VETS)              
  when the person believes an agency has violated his or her rights under any         
  statute or regulation relating to veterans' preference. Eligible veterans seeking   
  employment who believe that an agency has not properly accorded them their          
  veterans' preference, or failed to provide special placement consideration noted    
  above, may file a complaint with the local Department of Labor VETS                 
  representative (located at State employment service offices). To be eligible to     
  file a complaint a veteran must: Have served on active duty for more than 180       
  days and have other than a dishonorable discharge; have a service-connected         
  disability; or served on active duty during a period of war, or received a          
  campaign badge or expeditionary medal (e.g., the Southwest Asia Service             
  Medal). The Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act               
  of 1994 (USERRA) prohibits discrimination in employment, retention,                 
  promotion, or any benefit of employment on the basis of a person's service in the   
  uniformed services. Complaints under this law should also be filed with the         
  local Department of Labor VETS representative (located at State employment          
  service offices). Since a willful violation of a provision of law or regulation     
  pertaining to veterans' preference is a Prohibited Personnel Practice, a preference 
  eligible who believes his or her veterans' preference rights have been violated

  may file a complaint with the local department of Labor VETS representative, as     
  noted above. A disabled veteran who believes he or she has been discriminated

  against in employment because of his or her disability may file a handicapped       
  discrimination complaint with the offending agency under regulations

  administered by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.                        
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  None.                                                                               
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Under Public Law 95-454, retired members of the armed forces will no longer be      
  considered preference eligible as of October 1, 1980, unless they are disabled      
  veterans or retired below the rank of Major or the equivalent. Under Public Law     
  97-306, enacted October 14, 1982, a 2-year minimum active duty service              
  condition for those entering military service after September 7, 1980, or the full  


678                                                                             11-08

  period for which called or ordered to active duty, must be met, unless they are
  disabled veterans.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Not applicable.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Not applicable.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Not applicable.
Reports:
  Not applicable.
Audits:
  Not applicable.
Records:
  Not applicable.
Account Identification:
  16-0164-0-1-702.
Obligations:
  Obligations are devoted to Federal Management; and, are not separately
  identifiable.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Not applicable.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  During Fiscal Year 2004, VETS processed 351 veterans preference cases: 231
  cases dealt with the issue of hiring and 10 cases dealt with the issue of reduction
  in force, 95 percent of these cases were closed within 90 days.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  The Veterans' Employment Opportunities Act of 1998 is available free of charge
  from USDOL-VETS offices listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog. The
  Department of Labor's Office of the Assistant Secretary for Policy and Veterans'
  Employment and Training Service developed an "expert system" to help veterans
  receive the preferences to which they are entitled. Two versions of this system
  are currently available, both of which help the veterans determine the type of
  preference to which they are entitled, the benefits associated with the preference
  and the steps necessary to file a complaint due to the failure of a Federal Agency
  to provide those benefits. To find out whether you qualify for veterans'
  preference, visit the Department of Labor (DOL). The Internet address for the
  veterans' preference program is:
  http://www.dol.gov/dol/vets/public/programs/programs/ preference/main.htm
  "Veteran Preference," EL-3 (8/95); "Special Appointing Authorities for
  Veterans," EL-4 (8/95); "Medical Disqualification of Preference Eligible," EL-8
  (8/95); "Job Opportunities for Persons with Disabilities", EL-11 (8/95) (for use
  by Disabled Veterans); Regulations: 5 CFR 211, 5 CFR 213, 5 CFR 307 and 5
  CFR 720.
Regional or Local Office:
  Contact the nearest Department of Labor, Veterans' Employment and Training
  Service office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.
Headquarters Office:
  Office of Veterans' Employment and Training, Department of Labor, 200
  Constitution Ave., N.W., Room S-1312, Washington, DC 20210. Telephone:
  (202) 693-4700. Contact: Robert Wilson.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.dol.gov/dol/vets/public/programs/programs/preference /main.htm.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  16.101, Equal Employment Opportunity; 17.207, Employment Service/Wagner-
  Peyser Funded Activities; 17.803, Uniformed Services Employment and
  Reemployment Rights; 27.001, Federal Civil Service Employment; 27.005,
  Federal Employment for Individuals With Disabilities; 64.115, Veterans
  Information and Assistance; 64.116, Vocational Rehabilitation for Disabled
  Veterans.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
17.807 TRANSITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
   (TAP)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANCE SECRETARY FOR VETERANS'
  EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING, DEPARTMENT OF LABOR
AUTHORIZATION:
  Defense Reauthorization Act of 1991, Public.Law 101-510, 10 U.S.C. 1144.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide employment instruction, information and assistance to separating
  and retiring military personnel and their spouses through domestic and overseas
  installations and or facilities by offering job search and other related services.
