TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants (Contracts).                                                          
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  These services are provided through comprehensive workshops at military              
  installations worldwide. TAP Employment Workshops provide service members            
  and spouses with labor market information as they return to the world of civilian    
  employment; resume assistance; and information on available service benefits.        
  TAP Employment Workshops are provided through State Employment Agencies              
  (Local Veterans Employment Representative program---17.804), and through a

  competitively awarded training and assistance contract.

Applicant Eligibility:

  State Workforce Agencies designated under Section 4 of the Wagner-Peyser Act,

  as amended, or entities designed by the Governor. Contractors, as determined by

  the Department of Labor's Contracting Officer.

Beneficiary Eligibility:

  Service members within two years of retirement or one year of separation and

  their spouses.

Credentials/Documentation:

  None.

Preapplication Coordination:

  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental

  Review of Federal Programs". An applicant should consult the office of the

  official designated as single point of contact for more assistance, if the State has

  selected the program for review.

Application Procedure:

  Standard Form 424, Application for Federal Assistance, Standard Form 424A,

  Budget Information Non-Construction Programs, along with a State Plan

  narrative and a fiscal narrative in accordance with instructions in a Solicitation

  for Grant Application (SGA) or annual modification instructions. For

  competitive contracts, as determined by the Department of Labor's Contracting

  Officer.

Award Procedure:

  Grant awards are approved by a Department of Labor grant officer annually for

  the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training based on the

  recommendations of Regional Administrators and Directors for Veterans'

  Employment and Training (RAVETs/DVETs). Contract awards are approved

  approximately annually based on a determination by the Department of Labor's

  Contracting Officer.

Deadlines:

  Application submittal deadlines established by a Solicitation for Grant

  Application or Veterans' Program Letter distributed by the ASVET through the

  Grant Officer for each applicable fiscal year. Contract deadlines are irregular and

  depend upon fluctuating demand and the ability of the LVER program to

  provide TAP Employment Workshops.

Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

  Ninety days.

Appeals:

  Not applicable.

Renewals:

  Not applicable.

Formula and Matching Requirements:

  None.

Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

  Not applicable.

Reports:

  Quarterly reporting of TAP participants.

Audits:

  Not applicable.

Records:

  Cost accounting and performance records to be maintained in accordance with

  Veterans' Program Letters.

Account Identification:

  16-0174-1-0-702.

Obligations:

  (Grants) FY 07 $3,030,000; FY 08 est $3,087,000; and FY 09 est not available.

  (Contracts) FY 07 $2,588,155; FY 08 est $3,335,048; and FY 09 est not

  available.

Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

  Funds are used to purchase training manuals and are not contracted out.

PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

  Participants for FY 07 - 146,942 and FY 08 est. 160,000.

REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

  Title 38, Chapter 41.

Regional or Local Office:

  Contact the Regional administrator or State Director for Veterans' Employment

  and Training at the nearest office listed in Appendix IV of this Catalog.

Headquarters Office:

  Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training,

  Department of Labor, Room S-1312, Washington, DC.20210. Telephone: (202)

  693-4708 Contact: Pamela Langley or (202) 693-4732 Contact: Linda

  Chambers.



                                                                                 11-08 
Web Site Address:
  http://www.dol.gov/dol/vets.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  17.804, Local Veterans' Employment Representative Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Based on criteria in Solication for Grant Applications.
                                                               679
