                                                              DEPARTMENT OF STATE

19.204 FISHERMEN'S GUARANTY FUND                                                       
                                                                                       
      (Section 7)                                                                      
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  OFFICE OF MARINE CONSERVATION, BUREAU OF OCEANS AND                                  
  INTERNATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL AND SCIENTIFIC AFFAIRS,                                  
  DEPARTMENT OF STATE                                                                  
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Fishermen's Protective Act of 1967, Section 7, Public Law 90-482, as amended,        
  Public Law 92-569, 22 U.S.C. 1971-1977; Public Law 94-265, as amended,               
  Public Law 99-659; Public Law 104-43; Public Law 106-450; Public Law 108-            
  219.                                                                                 
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To provide for reimbursement of losses incurred as a result of the seizure of a      
  U.S. commercial fishing vessel by a foreign country on the basis of rights or        
  claims in territorial waters or on the high seas, which are not recognized by the    
  United States. Effective November 28, 1990, the United States acknowledges           
  the authority of coastal States to manage highly migratory species, thus reducing    
  the basis for valid claims under the Fishermen's Protective Act.                     
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Insurance.                                                                           
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  None.                                                                                
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Must be a U.S. citizen and the owner or charterer of a fishing vessel documented     
  as such by the United States. Reimbursement of losses and costs (other than          
  fines, license fees, registration fees and other direct costs which are reimbursable 
  through the Secretary of State) incurred as a result of seizure. The vessel must     
  be documented or certified under the laws of the United States.                      
Beneficiary Eligibility:

  Must be a U.S. citizen and the owner or charterer of a fishing vessel documented     
  as such by the United States, and must have paid a premium fee, if one is

  required, for the year in which the seizure occurs.                                  
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Proof of documentation of vessel and proof of claim.                                 
Preapplication Coordination:

  Application forms may be obtained by writing or calling: Office of Marine

                                                                                       
  Conservation, Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific

                                                                                       
  Affairs, Room 5806, Department of State, Washington, DC 20520-7818.

                                                                                       
  Telephone: (202) 647- 1948. FAX: (202) 736-7350. This program is excluded

                                                                                       
  from coverage under E.O. 12372.                                                      
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Any owner desiring to enter into an agreement with the Secretary of State under

                                                                                       
  the authority of Section 7 of the Act shall make application to the Office

                                                                                       
  Director, Office of Marine Conservation, Bureau of Oceans and International          
  Environmental and Scientific Affairs, Room 5806, Department of State,                
  Washington, DC 20520-7818. The application shall be accompanied by a fee if          
  required, in the amount established by a fee schedule in effect at the time of       
  application. After agreement is executed, no fee paid or portion thereof is          
  returnable. Application for reimbursement of losses will be accepted only from       
  insured owners.                                                                      
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  Review and approval will be made by the Assistant Secretary for Oceans and           
  International Environmental and Scientific Affairs, Department of State.             
Deadlines:                                                                             
  None.                                                                                
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  From 1 to 4 months.

                                                                                       
Appeals:

                                                                                       
  All determinations under this section are final and are not subject to arbitration

                                                                                       
  or appeal.

                                                                                       
Renewals:

                                                                                       
  Agreement is renewable upon payment of a premium fee, if required, and

                                                                                       
  completion of current Application for Guaranty Agreement.

                                                                                       
Formula and Matching Requirements:

                                                                                       
  Losses payable are generally limited to the market value of fish caught before

                                                                                       
  seizure which were spoiled or confiscated, market value of fishing gear or vessel

                                                                                       
  if confiscated, and up to 50 percent of gross income lost as a direct result of such

                                                                                       
  seizures.

                                                                                       
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

                                                                                       
  From effective date of agreement for balance of fiscal year ending on September

                                                                                       
  30.

                                                                                       
Reports:

                                                                                       
  None.

                                                                                       
Audits:

                                                                                       
  None.

Records:                                                                               




680                                                                              11-08

  None.
Account Identification:
  19-5121-0-2-376.
Obligations:
  (Reimbursement of Losses) FY 07 $500,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09
  est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Not applicable.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In fiscal year 2005, no guaranty agreements were executed and no applications
  for participation in the fund were received. For fiscal year 2006, 10 guaranty
  agreements are projected.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  22 U.S.C 1971-77; 22 CFR 33, as amended.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Office of Marine Conservation, Bureau of Oceans and International
  Environmental and Scientific Affairs, Room 5806, Department of State,
  Washington, DC 20520-7818. Contact: Mr. Stetson Tinkham. Telephone:
  (202) 647-3941. Use the same number for FTS. FAX: (202) 736-7350.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.state.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  19.200, Claims Against Foreign Governments; 19.201, Protection of Ships From
  Foreign Seizure.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
19.300 PROGRAM FOR STUDY OF EASTERN EUROPE
AND THE INDEPENDENT STATES OF THE FORMER
SOVIET UNION
   (Title VIII)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  BUREAU OF INTELLIGENCE AND RESEARCH, DEPARTMENT OF
  STATE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Research and Training for Eastern Europe and the Independent States of the
  Former Soviet Union Act of 1983, Public Law 90-164, Title VIII, 97 Stat. 1948,
  as amended by Public Law 103-199.
OBJECTIVES:
  To sustain and strengthen American expertise on the independent states of the
  former Soviet Union and countries of Southeast Europe, by supporting graduate
  training; advanced research; public dissemination of research data, methods, and
  findings; contact and collaboration among Government and private specialists;
  and firsthand experience of these countries by American specialists, including
  on site conduct of advanced training and research.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  For grants to nonprofit organizations and institutions of higher education with
  interest and expertise in conducting research and training programs on the
  independent states of the former Soviet Union and Southeast Europe. These
  organizations act as intermediaries for the Federal funds by conducting their
  own national, open competitions to make awards at the graduate level and above
  to individual students, scholars or other institutions.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Applicants must be nonprofit organizations or institutions of higher education
  with an established track record in conducting research and training programs on
  the independent states of the former Soviet Union and countries of Southeast
  Europe. These organizations must run national programs of: advanced research;
  graduate training; language training; public dissemination of research data,
  methods, and findings; contact and collaboration among Government and
  private specialists; and/or firsthand experience of the area by U.S. specialists.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Graduate students, individual scholars, nonprofit organizations and institutions
  of higher education active in the study of the Independent States of the former
  Soviet Union and countries of Southeast Europe.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applications must include vitae of professional staff.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Applicants may call the program office with specific questions in responding to
  the call for applications. There is no preapplication form or need for
