  preapplication conference. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O.        
  12372.                                                                              
Application Procedure:                                                                
  The call for applications is published in the Federal Register. Applications must   
  be prepared and submitted in 20 copies and on diskette in the form of a             
  statement, the narrative part of which should not exceed 20 double-spaced           
  pages. It must be accompanied by a one-page executive summary, a budget, and        
  vitae of professional staff. Applications must be submitted to the program office   
  by the competition deadline.                                                        
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  An Advisory Committee mandated by the legislation reviews the application and       
  rates it according to its responsiveness to the call in proposing a national,

  competitive program; the organization's established track record in                 
  administering a research and training program; its mechanisms for sharing the

  cost of the program; how it intends to advertise its program to the broad

                                                                                      
  constituency of scholars; how successfully an organization targets individuals      
  most likely to make a career commitment to the study of the region; etc. The

  Committee makes funding recommendations to the Deputy Secretary of State for        
  approval.                                                                           
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Contact the program office for application deadline.                                
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  About 3 months following the deadline, the Advisory Committee will meet in          
  public to evaluate applications and make funding recommendations. Assuming          
  the program's funding is in place, the Advisory Committee will forward its          
  recommendations to the Deputy Secretary of State who usually will act on them       
  within one or two weeks. All applicants then are notified by mail regarding their   
  funding status.                                                                     
Appeals:                                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Renewals:                                                                             
  Each competition is open and national; applicants are free to apply as often as     
  they wish.                                                                          
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  This program has no statutory formula.                                              
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Grant recipients have about 3 years to spend their awards depending upon the        
  appropriation legislation. Grant recipients draw down on the grant as needed by     
  requesting funds through the State Department's Program Office.                     
Reports:                                                                              
  Grant recipients are required to provide quarterly Program Narrative and Cash       
  Transaction Reports (SF-269) and Technical Performance Reports including, a         
  breakdown of expenditures by county and a semi-annual status of obligation          
  reports (SF-270).                                                                   
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A 133 (Revised, June          
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"      
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in         
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that    
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal          
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted    
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.                                                          
Records:                                                                              
  Grant recipients are required to keep standard accounting records for 3 years       
  beyond the life of the grant.                                                       
Account Identification:                                                               
  72-1093-0-1-150.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  FY 07 $4,200,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.              
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  Grants in fiscal year 2005 ranged from $100,000 to $1,107,000. Average of           
  total awards was $568,750.                                                          
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  The fiscal year 2006 competition closed on January 11, 2006. The call for           
  applications for fiscal year 2007 will be published in the Federal Register in      
  November 2006.                                                                      
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Current and past calls for applications, and lists of grant recipients are available
  from the program office and at the State Department website                         
  www.state.gov/s/inr/grants.                                                         
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  For program information, contact: Susie Baker, Program Officer, Title VIII          
  Program (Program for the Study of Eastern Europe and the Independent States of      
  the Former Soviet Union), INR/RES, Department of State, Room 2251, 2201 C           
  Street, NW, Washington, DC 20520-6510. Telephone: (202) 736-4572. FAX:              
  (202) 736-4851.                                                                     
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.state.gov/s/inr/grants.                                                  


                                                                                 11-08
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Responsiveness to the substantive provisions set forth in the Call for
  Applications, Part II, Program Information; the professional qualifications of the
  applicant's key personnel and their experience conducting national competitive
  award programs of the type the applicant proposes for the study of Eastern
  Europe and the independent states of the former Soviet Union, and budget, and
  cost effectiveness.
19.400 EDUCATIONAL EXCHANGE-GRADUATE
STUDENTS
   (Fulbright Program)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  BUREAU OF EDUCATIONAL AND CULTURAL AFFAIRS, DEPARTMENT
  OF STATE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Law 87-256, as amended, 22 U.S.C. 2451 et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  To improve and strengthen international relations of the United States by
  promoting better mutual understanding among the peoples of the world through
  educational exchanges.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The grants are designed to give U.S. students the opportunity to live and study in
  a foreign country for one academic year with possible renewals or extensions.
  Grants specify terms and conditions to meet the educational goals proposed by
  the grantee and approved by the J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board
  in making the award. Full grants: round trip transportation, tuition, books,
  maintenance for one academic year in one country, and health and accident
  insurance. Travel grants: the grants supplement maintenance and tuition
  scholarships granted to American students by universities, private donors, and
  foreign governments, which do not cover the cost of transportation.
Applicant Eligibility:
  To individuals with the following qualifications: (a) U.S. citizenship at the time
  of application; (b) with certain exceptions, B.A. degree or its equivalent before
  the beginning date of the grant; (c) candidates may not hold a doctoral degree at
  the time of application; (d); preference will usually be given to candidates who
  have not had extensive recent experience in the country to which they are
  applying; (e) language proficiency sufficient to communicate with the people of
  the host country and to carry out the proposed study; (f) language proficiency is
  especially important for students wishing to undertake projects in the social
  sciences and the humanities; and (g) good health.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  U.S. citizens who are graduate students and who want to live and study in a
  foreign country for one academic year.
Credentials/Documentation:
  See Applicant Eligibility.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Not applicable. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applicants who are enrolled in U.S. colleges and universities should contact
  their Fulbright program advisers on campus. Others should contact the Institute
  of International Education (IIE): 809 United Nations Plaza, New York, NY
  10017 (www.iie.org).
Award Procedure:
  The presidentially appointed J. William Fulbright, Foreign Scholarship Board,
  makes final selection of grantees.
Deadlines:
  Competitions normally open on May 1. Enrolled applicants must submit
  applications to the campus Fulbright program adviser by the date set by him.
  At-large applicants must normally submit applications to the New York office of
  IIE by October 25. Note: Travel grants application deadline is October 25.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Variable.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Extensions possible.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  One academic year.
Reports:
  Reports by all academic grantees are required at the end of their grants.
                                                                                   681
