Audits:                                                                                
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Records:                                                                               
  As prescribed by grant terms.                                                        
Account Identification:                                                                
  19-0201-0-1-154.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  FY 07 $60,700,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.              
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  $2,500 to $45,400. Average: $18,906 in FY 05.                                        
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  Not available at this time.                                                          
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  Annual announcement: Fulbright U.S. Student Program, Grants for Graduate             
  Study, Research, and Teaching, issued by Institute of International Education,       
  809 United Nations Plaza, New York, NY 10017. Guidelines are also available          
  at www.fulbrightonline.org.                                                          
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  See application procedure.                                                           
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Institute of International Education, 809 United Nations Plaza, New York, NY

                                                                                       
  10017.

                                                                                       
Web Site Address:

                                                                                       
  http://exchanges.state.gov.

                                                                                       
RELATED PROGRAMS:

                                                                                       
  19.401, Educational Exchange_University Lecturers (Professors) and Research

                                                                                       
  Scholars.

                                                                                       
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

                                                                                       
  Not applicable.

                                                                                       
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

                                                                                       
  Not applicable.

                                                                                       
                                                                                       
19.401 EDUCATIONAL EXCHANGE-UNIVERSITY                                                 
LECTURERS (PROFESSORS) AND RESEARCH                                                    
                                                                                       
SCHOLARS                                                                               
      (Fulbright-Hays Program)                                                         
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  BUREAU OF EDUCATIONAL AND CULTURAL AFFAIRS, DEPARTMENT                               
  OF STATE                                                                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Public Law 87-256, as amended, 22 U.S.C. 2451 et seq.                                
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To improve and strengthen the international relations of the United States by        
  promoting mutual understanding among the peoples of the world through                
  educational exchanges.                                                               
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Grants for professors (university lecturers) and research scholars are for three     
  months to a full academic year. Most are tenable in one country. The                 
  lectureships permit the grantees to lecture, usually serving as visiting professors  
  in institutions of higher learning. The research grants offer opportunities for      
  U.S. citizens to undertake postdoctoral research at overseas universities,           
  colleges, and certain research centers and institutes. Grants specify terms and      
  conditions to meet the educational goals proposed by the grantee and approved        
  by the J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board in making the award.           
  Individual grants generally include round-trip transportation for the grantee, and   
  in some cases for one or two dependents, a maintenance allowance, and an             
  allowance for travel, books and services essential to the assignment. Short-term     
  grants also available. Visit www.cies.org.                                           
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  To individuals with the following qualifications: (1) U.S. citizenship at the time   
  of application. (2) Foreign language proficiency, in some cases, for lecturing in    
                                                                                       
  certain countries, and for doing field-based research. (3) For lecturing: college or

                                                                                       
  university teaching experience at the level for which application is made or

                                                                                       
  equivalent professional standing in non-academic fields. (4) For research: a

                                                                                       
  doctoral or terminal degree or, in some fields, recognized professional standing

                                                                                       
  as demonstrated by faculty rank, publications, compositions, exhibition record,

                                                                                       
  concerts, etc. Candidates for a doctorate and persons wishing to undertake other

                                                                                       
  pre-doctoral professional training abroad should write to the Institute of

                                                                                       
  International Education, 809 United Nations Plaza, New York, NY 10017.

                                                                                       
Beneficiary Eligibility:

                                                                                       
  U.S. citizens who are educational professionals on the post graduate level, or

                                                                                       
  able to lecture or conduct research in professional fields such as law, business,

                                                                                       
  journalism, etc.

                                                                                       
Credentials/Documentation:

  See Applicant Eligibility.

Preapplication Coordination:                                                           


682                                                                              11-08

  Not applicable. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Persons who meet the eligibility requirements and who wish to receive a catalog
  announcing openings (includes application forms) should contact the Council
  for International Exchange of Scholars, 3007 Tilden Street, NW, Suite 5L,
  Washington, DC 20008. Telephone: (202) 686-4000. This material is also
  available at www.cies.org. Applicants are encouraged to submit their proposals
  online. Information may also be obtained from U.S. college and university
  campus contacts.
Award Procedure:
  Applications are reviewed by multidisciplinary peer review committees
  convened by CIES to screen applicants and to recommend candidates.
  Binational Fulbright Commissions or the Public Affairs Sections of U.S.
  Embassies abroad, together with prospective host institutions, review CIES-
  recommended candidates. The presidentially-appointed J. William Fulbright
  Foreign Scholarship Board makes final selection of grantees.
Deadlines:
  Subject to change, but generally applications are to be submitted by August 1;
  May 1, November 1, and February 1 for a small number of specialized positions.
   Major deadlines can be waived under very special circumstances such as an
  inadequate number of sufficiently qualified candidates for specific awards.
  After deadlines, applicants should contact CIES to determine availability of
  awards.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Applicants are notified promptly if they are ineligible. Final notification of
  selection for an opening occurs in 6 to 9 months.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Extensions considered where appropriate.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Up to 1 academic year.
Reports:
  Reports by all grantees are required at the end of their grant period.
Audits:
  Under the total audit concept, audits will be made on an organization-wide basis
  (rather than grant- by-grant) under GAO guidelines, Standards for Audit of
  Governmental Organizations, Programs, Activities and Functions, and for
  programs covered by A-102, Attachment P.
Records:
  None.
Account Identification:
  19-0201-0-1-154.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $43,550,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $3,500 to $80,000. Average: $28,000 in FY05.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY05, approximately 820 grants were awarded in the traditional Fulbright
  Scholar Program.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Annual announcement: Fulbright Scholar Program: Grants for U.S. Faculty and
  Professionals issued by Council for International Exchange of Scholars, 3007
  Tilden Street, NW, Suite 5L, Washington, DC 20008. Guidelines are also
  available at www.cies.org.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Council For International Exchange of Scholars, 3007 Tilden Street, NW., Suite
  5M, Washington, DC 20008.
Web Site Address:
  http://exchanges.state.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  19.400, Educational Exchange_Graduate Students.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Projects were funded: 1) Secularism, Islam and Nonviolence: Discussing Jihad
  and Pluralism in a Contemporary Muslim Society (Indonesia); 2) Peace building
  in Africa: Women as Partners for Peace (Uganda); and 3) Marine Resource
  Management in Tropical Environments (Nicaragua).
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  1) Is proposal feasible and practical. 2) Is proposal responsive to Fulbright
  priorities of international collaboration and increased mutual understanding. 3)
  Applicant's professional qualifications and likelihood for effectiveness as a
  lecturer/researcher abroad. 4) Anticipated contribution of the results of the
  proposed project to the applicant's field, and plans for their dissemination in the
  U.S. and abroad upon return.
19.402 INTERNATIONAL VISITORS PROGRAM
