   (Fulbright-Hayes Program)                                                            
                                                                                        
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                         
  BUREAU OF EDUCATIONAL AND CULTURAL AFFAIRS, DEPARTMENT                                
  OF STATE                                                                              
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                          
  Public Law 87-256, as amended, 22 U.S.C. 2451, et seq.                                
OBJECTIVES:                                                                             
  To improve and strengthen the international relations of the United States by         
  promoting mutual understanding among the peoples of the world through                 
  professional and educational exchanges.                                               
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                    
  Project Grants.                                                                       
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                              
  Funding for nonprofit organizations to support their work in planning,                
  organizing and directing programs of travel, observation, consultation, study and     
  practical experience for foreign visitors from countries throughout the world         
  selected and assigned by the Department. Programs are intended to bring U.S.          
  embassy selected international visitors into contact with influential Americans       
  and representative organizations and institutions across the United States, with      
  the intention of increasing communication and mutual understanding between            
  the people of the United States and the people of other countries. Recipients are     
  responsible for insuring that programs are balanced, nonpolitical, non-partisan,      
  and representative of the diversity of American political, social, and cultural life.

   The Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs seeks balance and diversity in        
  terms of itinerary, geography and community-size; the range of opinions to

                                                                                        
  which visitors are exposed; the professional backgrounds of those commenting

  on the issues; the ethnic, socio-economic and age diversity of the American           
  people; and other factors which may be of particular relevance to the particular

  subject or particular visitor(s) for whom programming is being arranged.              
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                  
  To be eligible for consideration, organizations must: (1) Be incorporated in the      
  U.S.; (2) have not-for- profit status as determined by the IRS; and (3) a proven      
  record of at least 4 years of successful work in international educational and        
  cultural exchange, including responsible fiscal management.                           
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                
  To be eligible for consideration, organizations must: 1) Be incorporated in the       
  U.S.; 2) have not-for- profit status as determined by the IRS; and 3) a proven        
  record of at least 4 years of successful work in international educational and        
  cultural exchange, including responsible fiscal management.                           
Credentials/Documentation:                                                              
  To be eligible for consideration, organizations must: (1) Be incorporated in the      
  U.S.; (2) have not-for- profit status as determined by the IRS; and (3) a proven      
  record of at least 4 years of successful work in international educational and        
  cultural exchange, including responsible fiscal management.                           
Preapplication Coordination:                                                            
  Not applicable. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.              
Application Procedure:                                                                  
  Announcements are made in the Federal Register for organizations meeting              
  eligibility requirements. Announcements are made throughout the fiscal year and       
  are posted to Department of State's website: http://e.usia.gov/education.             
Award Procedure:                                                                        
  Final selection of grantees is made by the Assistant Secretary for Educational        
  and Cultural Affairs on recommendation of an Advisory Committee made up of            
  senior Department staff experienced in international exchanges.                       
Deadlines:                                                                              
  As set out in Federal Register announcements.                                         
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                     
  From 6 weeks to 2 months from deadline.                                               
Appeals:                                                                                
  Not applicable.                                                                       
Renewals:                                                                               
  Not applicable.                                                                       
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                      
  Cost sharing-requirements set out Federal Register announcement.                      
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                  
  As set out in Federal Register announcements.                                         
Reports:                                                                                
  Financial and Program Reports are required.                                           
Audits:                                                                                 
  Audits will be made on an organization-wide basis (rather than grant-by-grant)        
  under GAO guidelines, Standards for Audit of Governmental Organizations,              
  Programs, Activities and Functions.                                                   
Records:                                                                                
  None.                                                                                 
Account Identification:                                                                 
  19-0201-0-1-154.                                                                      
Obligations:                                                                            
  FY 07 $11,360,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.               
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                              
  $137,000 to $4,690,000. Average: $1420,000.



                                                                                  11-08 
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  None.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Federal Register Announcements; requests for proposals listed on website:
  http://www.exchanges.state.gov/education.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of State, Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs, Office of
  International Visitors, Community Relations Branch, Room 255, 301 4th Street,
  SW., Washington, DC 20547. Contact: Nan P. Bell or William Wellman.
  Telephone: (202) 452-8624. Email: bellnpj@state.gov or
  wellmanwm@state.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.exchanges.state.gov.education.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Vary.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Quality of program idea; Program planning; Ability to achieve project
  objectives; Multiplier effect/impact; Support of diversity; International capacity;
  Institution's record/ability; Cost-effectiveness; and Cost-Sharing.
19.403 AMERICAN COUNCIL OF YOUNG POLITICAL
LEADERS
   (ACYPL)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  BUREAU OF EDUCATIONAL AND CULTURAL AFFAIRS, DEPARTMENT
  OF STATE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Law 87-256, as amended, 22 U.S.C. 2451 et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  To enable emerging political leaders in the U.S. to experience firsthand the
  political and cultural dynamics of other countries; to offer politically active
  young people in other countries a similar experience in the United States.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grant supports partial costs of travel, insurance, program activities, and
  orientation. Program alumni participate in arranging programming for visiting
  delegations.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Private nonprofit institution/organization. The ACYPL conducts two-way
  exchanges of young political leaders with many countries. The programs are
  generally for 2 weeks.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Individuals who participate in the program will benefit.
Credentials/Documentation:
  American participant nominations are solicited annually from State legislative
  leaders, governors, political party officials, alumni, ACYPL members/trustees,
  and co-sponsors. Selection is made by a Delegate Selection Committee with
  Democratic and Republican co-chairs. Delegates must be aged 25- 40 and
  generally include State and local elected officials as well as staff and party
  activists. The objective is political, geographic, ethnic/racial, and gender
  diversity that reflects the pluralistic nature of American society. Foreign
  delegates are selected by ACYPL partner organizations in conjunction with
  American Embassy officers.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Not applicable. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  The State Department solicits a proposal from ACYPL annually based on the
  level of appropriated funds available. A portion of the funding may be competed
  from one year to the next.
Award Procedure:
  Funding decisions are at the discretion of the Assistant Secretary for Educational
  and Cultural Affairs and based on the advice of a panel of Bureau reviewers and
  various State offices. Final technical authority resides with the Grants Division.
Deadlines:
  The deadline for submission of a proposal is established in the request for
  proposals or letter of solicitation.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Decisions are generally made within 3 months of the submission of proposals,
  subject to the availability and timing of funding.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  At the Bureau's discretion, in a given year ACYPL may be invited to submit a
                                                                                    683
