FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  BUREAU OF EDUCATIONAL AND CULTURAL AFFAIRS, DEPARTMENT                             
  OF STATE                                                                           
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Public Law 87-256, as amended; 22 U.S.C. 2451, et seq.                             
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  The Arts Exchanges on International Issues Program is only open to non-profit      
  arts, cultural and educational organizations. The program works with nonprofit     
  organizations to develop cooperative international group projects that introduce   
  American and foreign participants to each other's cultural and artistic life and   
  traditions. Our projects emphasize the relationship between the arts and broader   
  social and diplomacy issues. We seek organizations that have a disciplinary        
  expertise in the arts as well as broad outreach and networking capabilities with   
  American artists.                                                                  
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  International projects in the United States or overseas may involve an             
  international exchange of composers, choreographers, playwrights, theater          
  designers, writers and poets, filmmakers, arts administrators and visual artists.  
  Projects should involve our posts worldwide to carry out activities supportive of  
  the Department of State's mission to increase mutual understanding between the

  United States and other countries and to promote international cooperation in      
  educational and cultural fields. Ineligible proposals would include those

  focusing on: sending students, other youth or individual artists overseas,

                                                                                     
  speaking tours, research projects, the exchange of amateurs or semi-               
  professionals, community-level arts presentations or vocational and technical      
  long-term academic study programs.                                                 
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Applicants must be public or nonprofit organizations that demonstrate              
  disciplinary expertise in the arts and meet the provisions described in IRS        
  regulation 501 (3). Organizations must have 4 years of experience in exchange      
  to qualify for grants of more than $60,000.                                        
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Individual participants must be professional artists and arts administrators over  
  the age of 25. There is no age limit for participants. Some exchanges require      
  participants to have a minimum level of English language ability.                  
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Specific criteria for the selection of individual participants is determined by the
  grantee organization in conjunction with the Department of State program           
  officer.                                                                           
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                           
Application Procedure:                                                               
  For open competitions, the request for proposals is published in the Federal       
  Register.                                                                          
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Funding decisions are at the discretion of the The Department of State's Bureau    
  of Educational And Cultural Affairs and are based on the advice of a panel of      
  Department reviewers and various Department officers. Final technical authority    
  resides with the Bureau's Grants Division.                                         
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Deadlines for submission of proposals are established in the request for           
  proposals or letters of solicitation.                                              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Decisions are generally made within 3 months of the submission of proposals,       
  subject to the availability and timing of funding.                                 
Appeals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  Renewal grants for several of our long-term projects have been awarded in the      
  past, in order to build on existing successful projects.                           
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Usually a 30 percent cost-share is requested from grantee organizations.           
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Awards range in length from 12 to 36 months.                                       
Reports:                                                                             
  Quarterly program and financial reports are required.                              
Audits:                                                                              
  All grants are subject to OMB Circular A-133 audits.                               
Records:                                                                             
  As prescribed by USIA in grant terms.                                              
Account Identification:                                                              
  19-0201-0-1-154.

                                                                                     
Obligations:

                                                                                     
  FY 07 $1,000,000; FY 08 est not available; FY 09 est not reported.

                                                                                     
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

                                                                                     
  $60,000 to $300,000.

                                                                                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

  Not available at this time.                                                        
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             


                                                                                11-08
  Department of State regulations governing exchange visitor (J-1) programs.
  Guidelines for grants are distributed in conjunction with the request for
  proposals/letter of solicitation.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Jill Staggs, Creative Arts Exchanges Program, Office of Citizen Exchanges,
  Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs, Department of State, 301 4th Street
  SW., Washington DC 20547. Telephone: (202) 203-7500.
Web Site Address:
  http://exchanges.state.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Previous grantee organizations and examples of projects are available from the
  program office.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Programmatic planning, project objectives and quality; organization's capacity
  and track record; support for diversity; expertise; cost-effectiveness; project
  evaluation plan; value to US-partner country relations; cost-sharing; and
  multiplier effect.
19.410 EDUCATIONAL EXCHANGE-CONGRESS-
BUNDESTAG YOUTH EXCHANGE
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  BUREAU OF EDUCATIONAL AND CULTURAL AFFAIRS, DEPARTMENT
  OF STATE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Law 87-256, as amended, 22 U.S.C. 2451, et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  Established in 1983 to honor 300 years of German settlements in America.
  Goals are: To foster interaction between young people from the U.S. and
  Germany to promote mutual understanding; to foster close ties between
  Germany and the US.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  CBYX is a reciprocal exchange of U.S. and German young people, three
  quarters of whom are high school students and one quarter are practical trainees.
   Annual grants are awarded to American private nonprofit organizations for
  administering the CBYX American selection process and for placement and
  monitoring of participating students. The German Government provides grants
  simultaneously to the German partners of the American organizations. Grants
  support the costs of travel, insurance, enhancement activities, orientation,
  selection, and administration.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Organizations must be incorporated not-for-profit and have 4 years of experience
  in exchanges to qualify for grants of more than $60,000. For the grants to place
  and monitor year program participants, experience conducting academic year
  high school exchanges is required. Each U.S. organization must have a German
  partner that meets the German eligibility requirements. The organization
  providing overall administration and recruitment/selection must have experience
  administering a national competition.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  There are certain selection criteria (e.g., age, language ability, social skills,
  academic achievement) for American applicants. Similar criteria are applied by
  the German side in its selection, with the added layer of the recommendation of
  an individual Bundestag member.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants for participation in the exchange are required to have proof of
  citizenship or permanent residency, and proof of academic standing. They fill
  out application forms and submit to interviews during semi-finalist screening.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Not applicable. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  An open competition for all components is conducted every 4 years; for
  placement grants, either an open competition or a limited solicitation is used.
  For open competitions, the request for proposals is published in the Federal
  Register.
Award Procedure:
  Funding decisions are at the discretion of the Assistant Secretary for Educational
  and Cultural Affairs and are based on the advice of a panel of State reviewers
  and various offices. Final technical authority resides with the Grants Division.
Deadlines:
  Deadlines for submission of proposals are established in the request for
  proposals or letters of solicitation. Most solicitations are offered in the fall with
  proposals due by the end of the calendar year. The open competition for the 4-
  year cycle commencing in 2005 was announced on October 3, 2003. The
  deadline for proposals was November 7, 2003. Organizations were selected for
                                                                                     685
