CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  To comply with goals and objectives outlined in Federal Register announcement      
  and compatibility with office objectives stated previously.                        
                                                                                     
19.418 EDUCATIONAL EXCHANGE, AMERICAN STUDIES                                        
                                                                                     
INSTITUTE                                                                            
   (Study of the U.S. Program-Office of Academic Exchange Programs)                  
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  BUREAU OF EDUCATIONAL AND CULTURAL AFFAIRS, DEPARTMENT                             
  OF STATE                                                                           
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Public Law 87-256, as amended, 22 U.S.C. 2451.                                     
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To provide faculty and other professional participants with a deeper               
  understanding of American society, culture and institutions, past and present, in  
  order to improve courses and teaching about the United States abroad. To           
  provide student participants an introduction to American society and values,       
                                                                                     
  including principles of leadership, team building and volunteerism.

                                                                                     
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:

  Project Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Through an integrated series of lectures, readings, interactive discussions,       
                                                                                     
  research and independent study opportunities, and site visits, the 6-week

                                                                                     
  American Studies Institutes provide participants with a multi-dimensional view

                                                                                     
  of the U.S. Host institutions are responsible for institute design and

                                                                                     
  implementation, and all logistical aspects of the program, including: lodging and

                                                                                     
  subsistence; books and materials; allowances; and transportation.

                                                                                     
Applicant Eligibility:

                                                                                     
  Accredited colleges, universities, consortia of colleges and universities, and

                                                                                     
  other not-for-profit academic organizations that have an established reputation

                                                                                     
  in American studies and related disciplines, and that can demonstrate expertise

                                                                                     
  in conducting post-graduate level programs for foreign educators, or

                                                                                     
  undergraduate level programs for foreign students are eligible to apply.

                                                                                     
  Applicant institutions must have a minimum of four years' experience in            
  conducting international exchange programs. Proposals from consortia may be

                                                                                     
  submitted by a member institution with documented authority to represent all

                                                                                     
  members. The project director or one of the key program staff responsible for the  
  academic program must have an advanced degree in American studies or a             
  related discipline.                                                                
Beneficiary Eligibility:

  Participants should be highly-motivated and experienced foreign university

  faculty, including: teachers; teacher trainers; administrators; department chairs; 
  and, curriculum developers and textbook writers and other professionals with       
  government or NGOs in a position to have an impact. They will have

  demonstrated an ability and desire to include aspects of American civilization in  
  their teaching and professional work in their home countries. Participants must

  be nominated by a U.S. Embassy or Consulate, or by a Fulbright Commission.         
                                                                                     
Credentials/Documentation:

  See eligibility requirements above.                                                
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  Not applicable. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.           
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Initial proposals are generally solicited through open competition, and only       
  occasionally through sole-source or limited solicitations.                         
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Proposals are analyzed by the Study of the U.S. Branch, and are reviewed by an     
  impartial panel of senior Department of State officers. Final funding decisions    
  are at the discretion of the Assistant Secretary of State for Public Diplomacy at  
  the U.S. Department of State. Final technical authority rests with the Grants      
  Division of the Office of the Executive Director.                                  
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Deadline dates are specified in the requests for proposals (RFP's) or in the letter
  of solicitation.                                                                   
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Grant decisions are usually complete within three months of the due date of the    
  proposals.                                                                         
Appeals:                                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Renewals:                                                                            
  Based on host institution performance and demand for the program among the         
  overseas audience, applicants may be asked to submit renewal proposals for up      
  to two years following the initial award.                                          
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Cost-sharing is strongly encouraged, although there is no minimum requirement.     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Cooperative agreements are usually for periods of 6 to 8 months.                   
Reports:                                                                             
  Interim and final program and budget reports are required.                         


                                                                                11-08
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  non federal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Not applicable.
Account Identification:
  19-0201-0-1-154.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $3,200,000; FY 08 est not available; FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $260,000 to $385,000. Average: $322,500.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Not available at this time.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Calls for proposals, including guidelines, are published in the Federal Register,
  the Chronicle of Higher Education, and posted on the internet.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of State, ECA/A/E/USS - Study of the U.S. Branch, Attention:
  (until July 31, 2006) Robert C. Schmidt, Room 314 - State Annex 44, 301 4th
  Street, SW, Washington, DC, 20547. Telephone: (202) 453-8538. FAX: 202-
  453-8533. E-mail: schmidtrc@state.gov; (after July 31, 2006) Sheila Casey,
  Telephone: (202) 453-8536. Fax: (202) 453-8533. E-mail: CaseySD@state.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://exchanges.state.gov/education/amstudy.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  American Studies Institute on National Security at UC/San Diego; American
  Studies Institute on U.S. Politics and Political Thought at the University of
  Massachusetts/Amherst; American Studies Institute on the Civilization of the
  U.S. at New York University.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Overall quality; program planning; institutional capacity; diversity; experience
  with foreign educators; evaluation and follow-up; administration and
  management; and, cost effectiveness.
19.421 EXCHANGE-ENGLISH LANGUAGE FELLOW
PROGRAM
   (English Language Programs)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  BUREAU OF EDUCATIONAL AND CULTURAL AFFAIRS, DEPARTMENT
  OF STATE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Law 87-256, as amended, 22 U.S.C. 2451 et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  The English Language Fellow Program places American citizens holding
  advanced degrees in Teaching English as a Foreign Language (TEFL) or
  Teaching English as a Second Language (TESL) or Applied Linguistics who
  have teacher training and/or materials development experience and also places
  graduates with recent TEFL/TESL Master's degrees in all regions of the world at
  universities, teacher-training institutions, ministries of education, bi-national
  centers and other related language education institutions for ten-month
  assignments. The objectives of the program are to enhance English teaching
  capacity overseas in order to provide foreign teachers and students with
  communication skills they will need to participate in the global economy, to
  improve their access to diverse perspectives on a broad variety of issues, and to
  give them information that will better enable them to understand and convey
  concepts about American values, democratic representative government, free
  enterprise, and the rule of law. The Department of State, Bureau of Educational
  Affairs Exchanges Appropriation funds the program.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Individual grants are awarded at two levels: 1) English Language Fellows are
  teachers who have received their M.A. degrees within the last seven years. They
  serve as full time teachers of English as a foreign language while gaining
  international teaching experience. They may teach up to 20 classroom hours of
  English per a week and also participate in or organize additional activities such
  as curriculum and materials development and in-service training workshops and
  seminars. 2) Senior Fellows are experienced TEFL/TESL professionals,
  preferably with overseas teaching experience, who engage in teacher training
                                                                                 687
