  and participate in broad-reaching activities such as designing curricula,           
  organizing and conducting workshops and seminars, conducting program                
  evaluation, needs analysis and teaching English for Specific Purposes (ESP).        
  All applicants for EL Fellow positions have a history of working with               
  international exchanges, strong cross cultural experience and management            
  expertise and are placed in host countries at local ministries of education,        
  universities, teacher training institutions and other ESL educational institutions. 
  Program agency grants, specifying terms and conditions to meet the program          
  goals are recommended by a grant review panel and approved by the Bureau of         
  Educational and Cultural Affairs before award. Individual Fellow grants,            
  administered by the program grantee organization, include basic stipend, round      
  trip transportation, living allowance, medical insurance, miscellaneous and book    
  allowances.                                                                         
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Individuals with the following qualifications: (1) United States citizenship. (2)   
  Senior Fellows much have a Master's degree or higher in TESL/TEFL, Applied          
  Linguistics or a closely related field and have previous overseas teaching          
  experience. (3) Fellows much have received a Master's degree in TESL/TEFL           
  within the last seven years.                                                        
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  U.S. citizens who are willing to teach for 10 months overseas according to the      
  needs of the overseas host institution as requested by a U.S. embassy.              
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Individuals with the following qualifications: (1) U.S. citizenship at the time of  
  application; and (2) M.A. or Ph.D. degree and experience in TESL/TEFL or a          
  closely related field.                                                              
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  Not applicable. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.            
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Persons who meet the eligibility requirements and who wish to receive               
  information and an application form should contact Georgetown University,           
  Center for Intercultural Education and Development, P.O. Box 579400,                
  Washington, DC 20057-9400. Telephone: (202) 687-6339,                               
  elf@georgetown.edu.                                                                 
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  The Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs selects the grantee program

  agency. Overseas embassies and host institutions make final selections of           
  individuals.

Deadlines:

                                                                                      
  Subject to change, but generally applications are to be submitted by April 15.      
  Deadlines can be waived under very special circumstances such as an inadequate      
  number of qualified candidates for specific awards. After deadlines, applicants     
  should contact the Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs to determine the      
  availability of awards.                                                             
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Applicants are notified promptly if they are ineligible. Final notification of      
  selection for an opening occurs in 3 to 5 months.                                   
Appeals:                                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Renewals:                                                                             
  Extensions are granted for an additional year in the same country. Extensions       
  beyond 2 years must be requested and approved by the Bureau of Educational          
  and Cultural Affairs.                                                               
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  This program has no statutory formula.                                              
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Up to 1 academic year.                                                              
Reports:                                                                              
  Grantee agency provides quarterly statistics and program reports and a final        
  evaluation report by September 30 of the grant year. Individuals provide mid        
  year and final reports.                                                             
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, (Revised, June         
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"      
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in         
  Federal Awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that    
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal          
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for the year, except as noted     
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.                                                          
Records:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Account Identification:                                                               
  19-0201-0-1-154.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  FY 07 $6,800,000; FY 08 est not available; FY 09 est not reported.                  
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  $55,000 to $75,000.                                                                 
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  In fiscal year 2005, the English Language Fellow Program awarded 100

                                                                                      
  individual grants to qualified teachers of TEFL/TESL to teach in 63 countries. In

                                                                                      


688                                                                             11-08

  fiscal year 2006, approximately 112 individual grants will be awarded. This
  program enables grantees, teachers of English as a foreign/second language, to
  acquire overseas teaching experience while providing the host institutions with
  professional expertise in current theories and methods of teaching and learning
  English as a foreign or second language. Fellows have provided specially
  designed courses for targeted high level groups such as members of parliaments
  and their staff, judiciary officials, and leading finance and business officials.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Annual announcements for recruitment of applicants for the English Language
  Fellow Program are placed at the annual Teachers of English to Speakers of
  Other Language Convention's employee clearinghouse service on TESL/TEFL
  websites/listservs, and by direct mailings to TESL/TEFL professional
  preparation programs.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Georgetown University, Center for Intercultural Education and Development,
  P.O. Box 579400, Washington, DC 20057-9400. Telephone: (202) 687-6339.
Web Site Address:
  http://exchanges.state.gov/education/engteaching/fellows.htm.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Fellows teach English language skills/techniques, American culture, English for
  Specific Purposes (ESP) in fields such as journalism, economics, banking,
  tourism, business/management, and law, train teachers of English, and develop
  curriculum. They arrange and conduct conferences, workshops, and seminars,
  and work with ministries of education and work in communities assisting the
  local educational institutions to develop and maintain teaching and learning
  resource centers. They also facilitate the establishment of NGO teachers
  associations and organizations.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  1) The extent to which the proposal is feasible, practical and cost-effective; and
  2) the extent to which the proposal is responsive to ESL/EFL language priorities
  and objectives.
19.423 EXCHANGE-ENGLISH LANGUAGE
SPECIALIST/SPEAKER PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  BUREAU OF EDUCATIONAL AND CULTURAL AFFAIRS, DEPARTMENT
  OF STATE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Law 87-256, as amended, 22 U.S.C. 2451 et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  To improve the teaching and learning of English around the globe through short-
  term (up to 6 weeks) projects. Projects include curriculum evaluation and
  development, teacher training seminars, textbook development, program
  evaluation, and English for Specific Purposes (ESP). The program supports
  U.S.A. Embassy mission goals to improve mutual understanding of U.S. society
  and its instructions, to promote democratic institution building, and to assist
  participants to become active citizens of an international civil society.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grants awarded to U.S. academics with degrees in Teaching English as a
  Foreign Language/ Second Language (TEFL/TESL), Applied Linguistics, or a
  related field. Applicants must have teacher training experience and preferably
  overseas teaching experience. Grants specify terms and conditions to meet the
  educational goals proposed by the requesting U.S Embassy. Individual grants
  generally include international round- trip coach-class airfare for the grantees,
  visa, a materials allowance, a $100 final report payment, and honorarium of U.S.
  $200 per day. Expenses in the host country for domestic travel, food, and
  lodging are covered by the requesting U.S Embassy in conjunction with the
  hosting institutions. The Bureau provides medical insurance for the duration of
  the program.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Individuals with the following qualifications: (1) U.S. citizenship at the time of
  application; and (2) M.A. or Ph.D. degree and experience in TESL/TEFL or a
  closely related field.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  U.S. citizens who are willing to conduct workshops, seminars, deliver lectures
  and provide consultation services in areas related to teaching and learning
  English as a foreign language for periods up to 6 weeks to meet the needs of the
  overseas host institution.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Individuals with the following qualifications: (1) U.S. citizenship at the time of
  application; and (2) M.A. or Ph.D. degree and experience in TESL/TEFL or a
  closely related field.
Preapplication Coordination:
