19.430 INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION TRAINING AND                                         
                                                                                    
RESEARCH

                                                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     
  BUREAU OF EDUCATIONAL AND CULTURAL AFFAIRS, DEPARTMENT                            
  OF STATE                                                                          
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                      
  Public Law 87-256, as amended, 22 U.S.C. 2451 et seq.                             
OBJECTIVES:                                                                         
  To foster mutual understanding between the United States and other countries by   
  supporting professional development for international education professionals at  
  U.S. institutions of higher education and by supporting research on international 
  educational exchange.                                                             
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                
  Project Grants.                                                                   
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                          
  Funding for nonprofit organizations to support training of international          
  education professionals on U.S. campuses and to conduct research on               
  international exchange programs specified by requests for grant proposals         
  published in the Federal Register and on the Bureau of Educational and Cultural   
  Affairs website: http://exchanges.state.gov/education/rfgps/.                     
Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  To be eligible for consideration, organizations must: 1) Be incorporated in the   
  U.S.; 2) have not-for-profit status as determined by the IRS; and 3) a proven     
  record of successful work in international educational and cultural exchange,     
  including responsible fiscal management.                                          
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                            
  To be eligible for consideration, organizations must: (1) Be incorporated in the  
  U.S.; (2) have not-for-profit status as determined by the IRS; and (3) a proven   
  record of successful work in international educational and cultural exchange,     
  including responsible fiscal management.                                          
Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  To be eligible for consideration, organizations must: (1) Be incorporated in the  
  U.S.; (2) have not-for-profit status as determined by the IRS; and (3) a proven   
  record of successful work in international educational and cultural exchange,     
  including responsible fiscal management.                                          
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                          
Application Procedure:                                                              
  Announcements are made in the Federal Register for organizations meeting

  eligibility requirements. Announcements are posted to Department of State's

  website: http://exchanges.state.gov/education/rfgps/.

                                                                                    
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  Final selection of grantees is made by the Assistant Secretary for Educational    
  and Cultural Affairs on recommendation of an Advisory Committee made up of        
  Department staff experienced in international exchanges.

Deadlines:                                                                          
  See http://exchanges.state.gov/education/rfgps/.                                  
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  Six weeks to three months from deadline.                                          
Appeals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                             
Renewals:                                                                           
  Grants may be renewed for two years after initial competition, following ECA      
  review of program.                                                                
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  Formula and Matching Requirements Cost-sharing requirements stated in             
  Federal Register Announcement.                                                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  As stated in Federal Register announcements.                                      
Reports:                                                                            
  Financial and Program Reports are required.                                       
Audits:                                                                             
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June        
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,     
  "nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in      
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that  
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal        
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted  
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.                                                        
Records:                                                                            
  None.                                                                             
Account Identification:                                                             
  19-0201-0-1-154.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  FY 07 $1,625,000; FY 08 est not available; FY 09 est not reported.                
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  In FY06, $190,000 for international educational exchange research; $535,000       
  for international education professional training at U.S. institutions of higher  
  education; $900,000 for student advising training for overseas educational        
  advisers.



690                                                                           11-08

PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In 2005 DCS/ECA gave grants to NAFSA, IIE and the College Board.
  NAFSA's Academy for International Education enabled over 400,000 U.S. and
  international students and scholars, community members, faculty and campus
  staff to participate in activities that increase international understanding on
  campuses and in communities across the country. Open Doors, published by
  the Institute of International Education (IIE), is the only comprehensive
  information resource on international student mobility. The publication includes
  statistics on foreign students and scholars in the U.S. and on U.S. students
  abroad, as well as scholarly analyses of the data and their implication for policy
  makers. The College Board provided training and professional development
  opportunities to over 150 overseas educational advisers on topics including the
  admissions process at U.S. higher education institutions, standardized testing,
  pre-departure orientation and understanding the student visa process.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Not applicable.
Regional or Local Office:
  Regional or Local Office International Education Training: NAFSA:
  Association of International Educators, 1307 New York Avenue, NW, Eighth
  Floor, Washington, DC 20005-4701, Attn: Mr. Nick Seamons. Telephone: (202)
  737-3699. Fax: (202) 737-3657. E-mail: NickS@nafsa.org. The College Board,
  1233 20th St. NW, Washington, DC 20036-2304, Attn: Carol Blythe. Research:
  Institute of International Education (IIE), 809 United Nations Plaza, New York,
  NY 10017; Attn: Hey-Kyung Koh, Assistant Editor. Telephone: (212) 984-
  5331. E-mail: HKOH@iie.org.
Headquarters Office:
  Headquarters Office Educational Information and Resources (ECA/A/S/A), SA-
  44, 301 4th St. SW, Washington DC 20547, Attn: Mary Thompson-Jones,
  Branch Chief. Telephone: (202) 453-8872. FAX: (202) 453-8890.
Web Site Address:
  http://exchanges.state.gov http://www.nafsa.org; http://www.iie.org.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Varied.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Quality of program idea; Program planning; Ability to achieve project
  objectives; Multiplier effect/impact; Support of diversity; International capacity;
  Institution's record/ability; Cost-effectiveness; and Cost-Sharing.
19.431 EDUCATIONAL EXCHANGE-SCHOLAR-IN-
RESIDENCE (U.S. INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER
EDUCATION HOST LECTURING FACULTY FROM
ABROAD)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  BUREAU OF EDUCATIONAL AND CULTURAL AFFAIRS, DEPARTMENT
  OF STATE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Law 87-256, as amended, 22 U.S.C. 2451 et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  To improve and strengthen the international relations of the United States by
  promoting mutual understanding among the people of the world through
  educational exchanges.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grants enable accredited U.S. institutions of higher education to host a faculty
  lecturer from abroad for a semester or an academic year. Preference is given to
  institutions that are traditionally less involved in international exchange
  programs, including hosting visiting scholars and/or those serving minority
  audiences. Priority institutions include historically Black colleges and
  universities, Hispanic serving institutions, tribal colleges and universities, small
  liberal arts colleges and community colleges. Institutions sometimes propose to
  formally or informally share the visiting scholar with neighboring institutions or
  consortia, and consortia applications are welcome. Institutional applications may
  designate a specific scholar by name or request that U.S. Embassies or
  binational Fulbright Commissions abroad recruit one for them. The Scholar-in-
  Residence's primary role is teaching at the undergraduate level. Teaching
  assignments often focus on global issues, or on courses where a foreign lecturer's
  services can provide a cross-cultural or international perspective. Subject fields
  are generally in the social sciences and humanities but may be in a wide range of
  other fields as well, such as education, law, architecture, urban planning,
  intercultural studies, geography, religious studies, journalism, women's studies,
  etc. Institutions requesting scholars from countries with significant Muslim
  populations in the fields of Islamic history, culture and society broadly defined
  are particularly encouraged to apply. In addition to teaching courses, scholars
  give campus-wide lectures, help initiate international programs and contribute to
  curriculum development. Beyond campus activities, host institutions are
