  expected to involve the scholar with professional organizations and with          
  community associations, with outreach often including the K-12 education          
  community. Fulbright scholars-in-residence often play an important role in        
  assisting colleges and universities to begin to internationalize curricula by     
  providing a unique addition to academic offerings and activities on campus.       
  They also may offer institutions already engaged in international activities, the 
  opportunity to broaden or deepen their international or world area-specific       
  capacities. Individual grant benefits generally include round-trip transportation 
  for the grantee and in some cases for one dependent, a monthly stipend, a         
  dependents allowance, a settling in allowance, a professional enhancement         
  allowance for books and services and basic accident/sickness insurance. (Note     
  that all Fulbright Scholar-in-Residence funds are paid to the scholar, not to the 
  U.S. host institution.)                                                           
Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  Accredited U.S. institution of higher education.                                  
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                            
  Accredited U.S. institutions of higher education.                                 
Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  None.                                                                             
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  Not applicable. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.          
Application Procedure:                                                              
  U.S. institutions of higher education that wish to receive an application booklet 
  for the Fulbright Scholar-in-Residence Program should contact the Council For     
  International Exchange of Scholars, 3007 Tilden Street, NW. Suite 5M,             
  Washington, DC 20008. Telephone: (202) 686-7866. In many cases this               
  material is also available from U.S. college and university Fulbright campus      
  contacts.                                                                         
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  The U.S. Department of State and the Presidentially-appointed J. William          
  Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board make final selection of grantees.             
Deadlines:                                                                          
  Subject to change, but generally applications are to be submitted by mid-         
  October.                                                                          
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  Range of Approval/Disapproval Time: Applicant institutions are notified           
  promptly if they are ineligible. Applications recommended for funding are         
  notified ten weeks after the application deadline date. Final notification of     
  institutional approval and of scholar placement (recruitment and placement, if    
  necessary) occurs in 5 to 9 months after the application deadline date.           
Appeals:                                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                   
Renewals:

                                                                                    
  Extensions considered where appropriate and when funds are available.

                                                                                    
Formula and Matching Requirements:

                                                                                    
  U.S. host institutions are required to provide some type of cost sharing, whether

                                                                                    
  monetary or in-kind.

                                                                                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

  Up to 1 academic year (10 months).

Reports:                                                                            
  Reports by host institutions and by Scholars-in-Residence are required at the end

                                                                                    
  of the grant period.

                                                                                    
Audits:

                                                                                    
  Under the total audit concept, audits will be made on an organization-wide basis

                                                                                    
  (rather than grant- by-grant) under GAO guidelines, Standards for Audit of

                                                                                    
  Governmental Organizations, Programs, Activities and Functions, and for

                                                                                    
  programs covered by A-102, Attachment P.

                                                                                    
Records:

                                                                                    
  None.

                                                                                    
Account Identification:

                                                                                    
  19-0201-0-1-154.

                                                                                    
Obligations:

                                                                                    
  FY 07 $1,300,000; FY 08 est not available; FY 09 est not reported.

                                                                                    
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

  Awards are between $16,000 and $40,000 based on grant length, U.S. location       
  and the scholar's number of accompanying dependents. An average grant award       
  is $27,000.                                                                       
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  In fiscal year 2005, an estimated 36 grants will be awarded.                      
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  Annual announcement: Fulbright Scholar Program: Guidelines for Scholar-in-        
  Residence Proposals issued by the Council for International Exchange of           
  Scholars, 3007 Tilden Street, NW. Suite 5M, Washington, DC 20008.                 
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  None.                                                                             
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Council for International Exchange of Scholars, 3007 Tilden Street, NW. Suite     
  5M, Washington, DC 20008.                                                         
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  http://www.cies.org/sir/sir.htm.                                                  
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   


                                                                              11-08 
  19.401, Educational Exchange_University Lecturers (Professors) and Research
  Scholars.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  A Historically Black institution in the Mid-Atlantic region hosted a scholar from
  Nigeria who taught history, philosophy and religion from an Islamic perspective.
   Also, he helped develop the college's new concentration in religious and
  philosophical studies, served as a resource person to faculty and the academic
  honors program, and gave guest lectures in the local community. Hispanic-
  serving institution in Texas hosted a scholar from India to help bring an Asian
  perspective to campus and to internationalize its World History and American
  History courses. The scholar was engaged in all aspects of university life, from
  teaching, to curriculum development to student advising. A community college
  in the Northwest, in order to serve its growing resident immigrant and refugee
  population, hosted a scholar from Nicaragua. The scholar taught courses and
  advised in the fields of indigenous peoples, economic development and
  environment protection, in assisting the college in developing a new Latin
  American Studies program. A rural, Hispanic-serving community college in the
  West hosted a scholar from Slovakia, to help internationalize its nursing
  program. The scholar added a comparative perspective to the college, teaching
  courses in cultural assessment and intervention, commonalities of nursing, and
  nursing management, and participated in the colleges' program entitled: "Our
  National Heritage." A small, private, liberal arts college in New England hosted
  a Javanese puppet-master, musician and scholar from Indonesia to help support
  and enhance its growing gamelan music program and the development of its
  Asian Studies program. The scholar taught beginning gamelan, two courses on
  shadow puppet theatre (wayang), gave guest lectures, and participated in
  community outreach in the local schools and museum. Two institutions in New
  York State jointly hosted a Chinese environmental ecologist. The scholar helped
  initiate a new environmental science major at one institution, where he taught
  their undergraduate environmental science courses and contributed to the second
  institution's Center for Environmental Policy. He also became involved with
  local environmental organizations. As a consequence of hosting the Fulbrighter,
  both institutions are seeking a long-term, ongoing relationship in environmental
  science and policy with the scholar's home university.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Is the institution within the preferred institutional profile? Does the proposal
  adequately describe the institution's short-term and long-term international
  education objectives? Does the proposed scholar adequately meet those goals
  and objectives? Is the proposed program for the scholar practical and feasible?
  Is rationale provided for requesting a scholar from a specific country or region?
  If a particular scholar is requested, does that scholar's qualifications and
  experience mesh with the institution's goals and the proposed teaching
  assignment and other duties? Does the proposal include plans for other campus
  activities? Does the proposal include plans for community involvement and
  outreach? Does the proposal demonstrate how the scholar's impact will be
  sustained after the grant is completed? Has the institution provided monetary or
  in-kind cost sharing?
19.432 OVERSEAS EDUCATIONAL ADVISING
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  BUREAU OF EDUCATIONAL AND CULTURAL AFFAIRS, DEPARTMENT
  OF STATE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Law 87-256, as amended, 22 U.S.C. 2451 et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  To foster mutual understanding between the United States and other countries by
  promoting U.S. higher education through a global network of Education USA
  educational advising/information centers.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funding for nonprofit organizations to support implementation of overseas
  educational advising programs, educational advising coordination, and training
  for educational advisers to ensure that students in specific international locations
  receive unbiased, ethical, up-to-date information on U.S. higher education.
  Locations specified by requests for grant proposals published in the Federal
  Register and on the Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs website:
  http://exchanges.state.gov/education/rfgps/.
Applicant Eligibility:
  To be eligible for consideration, organizations must: 1) Be incorporated in the
  U.S.; 2) have not-for-profit status as determined by the IRS; 3) a proven record
  of successful work in international educational and cultural exchange, including
  responsible fiscal management.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  To be eligible for consideration, organizations must: 1) Be incorporated in the
  U.S.; 2) have not-for-profit status as determined by the IRS; and 3) a proven
  record of successful work in international educational and cultural exchange,
  including responsible fiscal management.
Credentials/Documentation:
                                                                                    691
