  Not applicable. To be eligible for consideration, organizations must: 1) Be         
  incorporated in the U.S.; 2) have not-for-profit status as determined by the IRS;   
  and 3) a proven record of successful work in international educational and          
  cultural exchange, including responsible fiscal management.                         
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                            
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Announcements are made in the Federal Register for organizations meeting            
  eligibility requirements. Announcements are posted to Department of State's         
  website: http://exchanges.state.gov/education/rfgps/.                               
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Final selection of grantees is made by the Assistant Secretary for Educational      
  and Cultural Affairs on recommendation of an Advisory Committee made up of          
  Department staff experienced in international exchanges.                            
Deadlines:                                                                            
  See http://exchanges.state.gov/education/rfgps/.                                    
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Six weeks to three months from deadline.                                            
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  Grants may be renewable for two years after initial competition, following ECA      
  review of program.                                                                  
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Cost-sharing requirements set out in Federal Register announcement.                 
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  As set out in Federal Register announcements.                                       
Reports:                                                                              
  Financial and Program Reports are required.

                                                                                      
Audits:

                                                                                      
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June

                                                                                      
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,

                                                                                      
  "nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in

                                                                                      
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that    
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal          
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted    
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.                                                          
Records:                                                                              
  Prescribed in the grant terms.                                                      
Account Identification:                                                               
  19-0201-0-1-154.                                                                    
Obligations:

                                                                                      
  FY 07 $1,775,000; FY 08 est not available; FY 09 est not reported.

                                                                                      
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

                                                                                      
  $60,000 to $450,000. Average: $200,000.

                                                                                      
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

                                                                                      
  In 2005, DOS/ECA awarded grants to AMIDEAST, ACIE, IIE, and OSI to

                                                                                      
  provide overseas educational advising, orientation, and information services on

                                                                                      
  opportunities in U.S. education for foreign students and scholars at field offices

                                                                                      
  the Middle East, Eurasia, East Asia and Mexico. Centers received more than 20

                                                                                      
  million queries in 2005.                                                            
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Federal Register Announcements; requests for proposals listed on website:           
  http://exchanges.state.gov/education/rfgps/.                                        
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Educational Information and Resources (ECA/A/S/A), SA-44, 301 4th St. SW,           
  Washington DC 20547, Attn: Mary Thompson-Jones, Branch Chief. Telephone:            
  (202) 453-8872. Fax: (202) 453-8890.                                                
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://educationusa.state.gov.                                                      
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.

                                                                                      
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

                                                                                      
  Varied.

                                                                                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

                                                                                      
  Quality of program idea; Program planning; Ability to achieve project

                                                                                      
  objectives; Multiplier effect/impact; Support of diversity; International capacity;

                                                                                      
  Institution's record/ability; Cost-effectiveness; and Cost-Sharing.

                                                                                      
                                                                                      
19.500 MIDDLE EAST PARTNERSHIP INITIATIVE (MEPI)                                      
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  DEPARTMENT OF STATE                                                                 
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as Amended.

                                                                                      
OBJECTIVES:

                                                                                      
  To support democracy in the Middle East and North Africa by encouraging

                                                                                      
  political, economic & educational reform and the empowerment of women..

                                                                                      
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:

                                                                                      
692                                                                             11-08

  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grants and Cooperative agreements to support political, economic, and
  educational reform efforts and the empowerment of women in the Middle East
  and North Africa.. MEPI encourages applications from partnerships or consortia
  led by local organizations based in the Middle East and North Africa. Awards
  are designed to benefit principally the non-governmental organizations and
  citizens of countries in the Middle East and North Africa. Preference will be
  given to countries in the region with less developed civil societies, and with
  limited experience in developing and implementing issue based campaigns on
  economic, democratic, or educational reforms, and advocacy for women's rights,
  aimed at increasing the number of active stakeholders and building effective
  local coalitions. MEPI has particular interest in supporting programs that are
  innovative and that meet needs and opportunities not already addressed by
  current donor funding, particularly through USAID bilateral agreements.
  Generally MEPI does not fund bricks and mortar type projects or stand-alone
  scholarships. Middle East Peace Process projects are generally funded out of the
  separate Department of State Multilateral Peace Process Account. Development
  projects in Egypt, Jordan, or Iraq are generally funded by USAID bilateral ESF
  funds.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Non-profit, for-profit organizations or state and local governments interested in
  partnering with the Middle East Partnership Initiative to promote change in the
  Middle East. Applicants must have an established track record in conducting
  training programs and promoting reform through development projects.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Country covered by the State Department's Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs, not
  currently subject to foreign assistance restrictions. Could include: Algeria,
  Bahrain, Egypt, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya, Morocco,
  Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Syria, Tunisia, UAE, West/Bank Gaza, Yemen.
Credentials/Documentation:
  CVs of main program staff.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Respond to a general MEPI Standing Program Announcement or specific
  Request for Application (RFA) posted on www.grants.gov and
  www.mepi.state.gov. SF 424 and full proposal required. Public Diplomacy and
  Alumni Outreach Plan must be incorporated in proposal.
Award Procedure:
  A technical review panel reviews proposals and scores them in accordance with
  published review criteria and determines priority program recommendations for
  final negotiation on the grant.
Deadlines:
  As announced on www.grants.gov and www.mepi.state.gov.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  25 to 180 days.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Based on program needs and availability of funding.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  No requirements, but applications that reflect cost sharing arrangements,
  especially for programs in the following Gulf countries (Kuwait, Saudi Arabia,
  Qatar, Bahrain, and UAE) will be viewed more favorably. Cost-sharing
  arrangements between MEPI and the recipients are negotiated prior to award.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Varies.
Reports:
  Quarterly Programmatic Reports, including relation of progress to expenditures
  in the narrative, Financial Reports, and final report including program
  evaluation. One web-postable success story from program to be posted on
  www.mepi.state.gov.
Audits:
  As mandated in OMB circular A-133.
Records:
  Above reports will be retained for three years from the date of submission of the
  final financial report.
Account Identification:
  19-1014-0-1-150.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $120,000; FY 08 est not available; FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  See specific funding announcement for details.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  As a Presidential Initiative, the Middle East Partnership Initiative (MEPI)
  through Economic Support Funds (ESF) and has funded over 350 programs
  aimed at promoting political, economic, and education reform and women's
  empowerment in the Middle East and North Africa. Program descriptions can be
  found on www.mepi.state.gov.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
