  Guidelines for grants and cooperative agreements are distributed in conjunction   
  with the request for applications or program announcements. Extensive             
  background and program information is available on www.mepi.state.gov.            
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  MEPI has Regional Offices in Tunis, Tunisia, Abu Dhabi, and UAE.                  
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Office of the Middle East Partnership Initiative (MEPI) Department of State       
  Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs 2201 C Street N.W. Rm 5253A Washington             
  D.C. 20520.                                                                       
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  www.mepi.state.gov.                                                               
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  None.                                                                             
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  See www.mepi.state.gov for a complete listing of MEPI funded programs,            
  including those awarded to non-US based institutions and through pre-existing     
  USAID grant and contract mechanisms and the Bureau of Educational and             
  Cultural Affairs (ECA) and Department of Commerce. Region-wide programs           
  funded include: Middle East Judicial and Legal Reform Forum; Corporate            
  Governance; Creating Child Centered Schools; Open and Pluralistic Media.          
  Country-specific programs including Election Monitoring in Yemen; and             
  Judicial Reform in Oman.                                                          
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                   
  MEPI is looking for new and innovative proposals to promote political,            
  economic, and education reform and empower women in the Middle East and           
  North Africa. Proposals that include cost-sharing, partnership with local NGOs    
  or governments, a public outreach plan, and an alumni component will be           
  viewed favorably. In addition, proposals should be responsiveness to the          
  substantive provisions set forth in each Program Announcement or Request for      
  Application posted www.grants.gov and www.mepi.state.gov.                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
19.510 U.S. REFUGEE ADMISSIONS PROGRAM                                              
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     
  BUREAU OF POPULATION, REFUGEES, AND MIGRATION                                     
  ,DEPARTMENT OF STATE                                                              
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                      
  Immigration and Nationality Act, as amended (INA) and the Refugee Migration       
  and Assistance Act, as amended (MRA).                                             
OBJECTIVES:                                                                         
  Initial reception and placement program for refugees approved for admission in    
  the United States. Program objectives include: (1) arranging for the refugees,    
  resettlement by ensuring that approved refugees are offered appropriate           
  assistance during their initial resettlement in the United States; (2) providing  
  refugees with basic necessities and core services during their first 90-days of   
  resettlement in the United States; and (3) assisting refugees in achieving        
  economic self-sufficiency through employment as soon as possible after arrival    
  in the United States in coordination with publicly sponsored refugee service and  
  assistance programs.                                                              
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                
  Cooperative Agreements.                                                           
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                          
  The cooperative agreement allocates partial funds for the identified services

  based on a fixed per capita of $850 per refugee resettled in the United States.   
  Allocation of funds are also based on the organization's reported expenses for its
  headquarters each fiscal year.

Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  State governments and private non-profit organizations.                           
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                            
  Refugees approved under the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program will benefit.         
Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  None.                                                                             
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O 12372. This program        
  is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                                       
Application Procedure:                                                              
  Participating organizations respond to the Bureau's request for proposals on an   
  annual basis. All proposals are submitted to the Office of Refugee Admissions     
  within the Bureau. There is prescribed format for proposals, as stated in the     
  request.                                                                          
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  The Assistant Secretary of the Bureau makes funding decisions based on the        
  Director of the Office of Refugee Admissions recommendations for all reception    
  and placement awards and the Comptroller of the Bureau signs the cooperative      
  agreement.                                                                        
Deadlines:                                                                          
  See the cover letter of the request for proposal for submission deadline.         
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  None.                                                                             
Appeals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                             
                                                                               11-08
Renewals:
  Renewals or extensions require additional approval.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Formula: Funds are awarded on a reimbursement basis through a per capita and
  reported expenses. Organizations are expected to contribute private funds to
  assist with reception and placement services.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Funds are awarded on a fiscal year basis, October 1 through September 30.
Reports:
  Quarterly financial reports are due sixty days after the close of a calendar year
  quarter. A preliminary final financial report is due 90 days after the expiration
  of an agreement with a final financial due upon issuance of final indirect cost
  rates. Program reports are due as set forth in the award document.
Audits:
  The Bureau's funds must be included in an appropriate audit or audits performed
  by independent public accountants in accordance with U.S. Government
  Auditing Standards established by the Comptroller General of the United States
  covering financial audits. The audit must be performed to meet the provisions
  of OMB Circular No. A- 133. Revised, Audits of States, Local Governments,
  and Non-Profit Organizations. The audit report is due 30 days after issuance or
  nine months after the end of the audit period.
Records:
  The grantee shall maintain a case file for each refugee family unit admitted into
  the United States.
Account Identification:
  19-1143-0-1-151.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $74,600,000; FY 08 est not available; FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Range $20,000 - $2,873,029; Average $1,021,203.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In fiscal year 2006, 53,813 refugees were resettled in the United States through
  nine private non-profit organizations and one State government.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  All inquiries should be directed to the information contacts listed below.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Programmatic - U.S. Department of State, Bureau of Population, Refugees, and
  Migration, Office of Refugee Admissions, SA-1, Suite L505, Washington, DC
  20522-0105, Telephone: 202/663-1056. Financial - U.S. Department of State,
  Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration, Office of the Comptroller, SA-
  1, Suite L505, Washington, DC 20522-0105. Telephone: (202) 663-1022.
Web Site Address:
  www.state.gov/g/prm.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Cooperative agreements are made on the basis of a panel review using
  evaluation criteria specified in the request for proposal.
19.511 OVERSEAS REFUGEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
FOR EAST ASIA
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  BUREAU OF POPULATION, REFUGEES, AND MIGRATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF STATE
AUTHORIZATION:
  The Migration and Refugee Assistance Act of 1962, as amended (MRA), 22
  U.S.C. 2601 et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  There are more than 140,000 Burmese refugees in Thailand through UNHCR
  (protection) and NGOs. NGOs address assistance needs not covered by UNHCR
  or other international organizations, including public health programs (including
   gender-based violence prevention), water and sanitation, food, fuel, and
  clothing, as well as some basic household assistance, such as blankets and
  mosquito nets. Please note that funding for 2006 is extremely limited.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The cooperative agreement, grant or contribution provides funds to meet the
  organization's objectives as approved by the Bureau. Funding documents
  authorize funds based on the organization's budget submission after Bureau
  approval.
Applicant Eligibility:
  United Nations, international and non-governmental organizations. MRA
  designates primary UN or IO recipient organizations. NGO activities must be
  complementary to, and coordinated with, UN programs.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
                                                                                  693
