  Refugees and victims of conflict requiring assistance.                              
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  None.                                                                               
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                      
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Non-governmental organizations (NGOs) must submit proposals for the Bureau's        
  consideration (international organizations submit appeals to the Bureau). NGOs      
  may submit proposals anytime throughout the year to fill a need as it arises, with  
  Bureau consideration granted shortly thereafter. Where there is a specific or       
  immediate priority or need, the Bureau will issue policy and program guidelines     
  and will invite NGOs to submit proposals by a specific deadline for Bureau          
  review. NGO representatives are also encouraged to communicate directly with        
  Bureau program officers regarding priorities and funding timelines. NGOs that       
  have never received PRM funding must be prepared to demonstrate that their          
  organizations meet the financial and accounting requirements of the U.S.            
  Government before they can be eligible to receive Bureau funding.                   
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  The Assistant Secretary of the Bureau makes funding decisions based on              
  recommendations from the Bureau's Office of Policy and Resource Planning and        
  other Bureau offices. The Comptroller or Deputy Comptroller of the Bureau           
  signs the cooperative agreement.                                                    
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Deadlines vary according to the type of proposal being submitted. For new           
  proposals, the deadline is no later than June 30 of the current fiscal year (unless 
  an unforeseen emergency occurs that would necessitate additional funding

  beyond the stated deadline.) Proposals for follow-on programs are due 90-days       
  before expiration of the current agreement. Proposals tied to specific program

  guidelines are due per the deadline of the program-issued guidelines.               
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  None.                                                                               
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  Renewals or extensions require additional approval.                                 
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Bureau's funds are intended to partially cover an organization's budget request     
  with remaining funds expected from other resources.                                 
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Generally, funds are awarded for a 12-month period. Shorter time periods may        
  also be authorized.                                                                 
Reports:                                                                              
  Quarterly financial reports are due forty-five days after the close of a calendar   
  year quarter. A preliminary final financial report is due 90 days after the         
  expiration of an agreement wit financial due upon issuance of final indirect cost   
  rates. The Bureau program office may require additional reporting; the              
  organization will be notified of any additional reporting requirements informally.  
Audits:                                                                               
  The Bureau's funds must be included in an appropriate audit or audits performed     
  by independent public accountants in accordance with U.S. Government                
  Auditing Standards established by the Comptroller General of the United States      
  covering financial audits. The audit must be performed to meet the provisions       
  of OMB Circular A-133- Revised, Audits of States, Local Governments, and            
  Non-Profit Organizations. The audit report is due 30 days after issuance or nine    
  months after the end of the audit period.                                           
Records:                                                                              
  The grantee shall maintain files for a three-year period after submission of final  
  financial report.                                                                   
Account Identification:                                                               
  19-1143-0-1-151.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  FY 07 est not available; FY 08 est not available; FY 09 est not reported.           
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  For FY 05 under MRA, assistance for East Asia was given to three IOs . One          
  was for $ 970,000 and two were for just over $ 8 million. Assistance for two        
  NGOs ranged from $1,150,000 to $ 4,544,775 with an average of $2,847,388.           
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  In FY 05 more than $608million was provided for programs worldwide, by the          
  Bureau multilaterally through the United Nations and international organizations    
  and bilaterally to NGOs that fill gaps in the international community's             
  multilateral response. Bureau funding was focused on three priority areas: (1)      
  promoting access to effective protection and first asylum for refugees and          
  conflict victims, with protection of women and children as a priority; (2)          
  providing humanitarian assistance across geographic regions and according to        
  internationally accepted standards; and (3) supporting voluntary repatriation,      
  including sustainable reintegration of refugees in countries of origin.             
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  All inquiries should be directed to the information contacts listed below.          
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  None.                                                                               


694                                                                             11-08

Headquarters Office:
  Programmatic: Richard Albright, Office Director, (202) 663- 1063; Larry
  Bartlett, Deputy Director, (202) 663-1065; Rafael Foley Eileen Kelley,
  Southeast Asia, (202) 663-3715; Melissa Pitotti, Northeast Asia, (202) 663-
  1950; U.S. Department of State, Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration,
  SA-1, Suite L505, Washington, DC 20522-0105. Financial: Office of the
  Comptroller, SA-1, Suite L303, Washington, DC 20522-0105. (202) 663-1022.
Web Site Address:
  www.state.gov/g/prm.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The Bureau's main objective is to help ensure that refugees and victims of
  conflict have access to basic life-sustaining resources in ways that meet
  internationally accepted standards of care in shelter, food supply, nutrition,
  water supply, sanitation, and public health. NGO proposals should clearly use
  SPHERE standards as the basis for design, implementation, and evaluation,
  including proposed objectives and indicators. Underlying PRM's support for
  humanitarian assistance is a commitment to protection, targeted support to
  women, vulnerable individuals, coordination with relevant UN agencies and
  other NGOs, sustainability of programming, security, and capacity building.
  NGOs in search of Bureau funding would do well to address these specific areas
  in any proposals sent for funding.
19.517 OVERSEAS REFUGEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
FOR AFRICA
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  BUREAU OF POPULATION, REFUGEES, AND MIGRATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF STATE
AUTHORIZATION:
  The Migration and Refugee Assistance Act of 1962, as amended (MRA), 22
  U.S.C. 2601 et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  Assistance will contribute to the basic needs of some 3 million refugees and
  millions more conflict victims spread across the African continent (both Sub-
  Saharan and North Africa). NGOs are key partners of international
  organizations in Africa, often in specialized areas such as health care, water,
  sanitation, food distribution, and education. Funds will be provided directly to
  NGOs to complement the programs of UNHCR and to bring basic assistance up
  to international life-sustaining standards of care.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The cooperative agreement, grant or contribution provides funds to meet the
  organization's objectives as approved by the Bureau. Funding documents
  authorize funds based on the organization's budget submission after Bureau
  approval.
Applicant Eligibility:
  United Nations, international and non- governmental organizations. MRA
  designates primary UN or IO recipient organizations. NGO activities must be
  complementary to, and coordinated with, UN programs.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Refugees and victims of conflict requiring assistance.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Non-governmental organizations (NGOs) must submit proposals for the Bureau's
  consideration (international organizations submit appeals to the Bureau). NGOs
  may submit proposals any time throughout the year to fill a need as it arises,
  with Bureau consideration granted shortly thereafter. Where there is a specific or
  immediate priority or need, the Bureau will issue policy and program guidelines
  and will invite NGOs to submit proposals by a specific deadline for Bureau
  review. NGO representatives are also encouraged to communicate directly with
  Bureau program officers regarding priorities and funding timelines. NGOs that
  have never received PRM funding must be prepared to demonstrate that their
  organizations meet the financial and accounting requirements of the U.S.
  Government before they can be eligible to receive Bureau funding.
Award Procedure:
  The Assistant Secretary of the Bureau makes funding decisions based on
  recommendations from the Bureau's Office of Policy and Resource Planning and
  the Comptroller or Deputy Comptroller of the Bureau signs the cooperative
  agreement.
Deadlines:
  Deadlines vary according to the type of proposal being submitted. For most
  proposals, the deadline is no later than June 30 of the current fiscal year (unless
