  an unforeseen emergency occurs that would necessitate additional funding          
  beyond the stated deadline.) Proposals for follow-on programs are due 90-days     
  before expiration of the current agreement. Proposals tied to specific program    
  guidelines are due per the deadline of the program-issued guidelines.             
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  None.

Appeals:

  None.

                                                                                    
Renewals:                                                                           
  Renewals or extensions require additional approval.                               
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  Bureau's funds are intended to partially cover an organization's budget request   
  with remaining funds expected from other resources.                               
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  Generally, funds are awarded for a 12-month period. Shorter time periods may      
  also be authorized.                                                               
Reports:                                                                            
  Quarterly financial reports are due forty-five days after the close of a calendar 
  year quarter. A preliminary final financial report is due 90 days after the       
  expiration of an agreement with a final financial due upon issuance of final      
  indirect cost rates. The Bureau program office may require additional reporting;  
  the organization will be notified of any additional reporting requirements        
  informally.                                                                       
Audits:                                                                             
  The Bureau's funds must be included in an appropriate audit or audits performed

                                                                                    
  by independent public accountants in accordance with U.S. Government

                                                                                    
  Auditing Standards established by the Comptroller General of the United States

                                                                                    
  covering financial audits. The audit must be performed to meet the provisions

                                                                                    
  of OMB Circular No. A-133- Revised, Audits of States, Local Governments, and      
  Non-Profit Organizations. The audit report is due 30 days after issuance or nine  
  months after the end of the audit period.                                         
Records:                                                                            
  The grantee shall maintain files for a three-year period after submission of final
  financial report.                                                                 
Account Identification:                                                             
  19-1143-0-1-151.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  FY 07 est not available; FY 08 est not available; FY 09 est not reported.

                                                                                    
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

                                                                                    
  For FY05 under MRA, assistance for Africa was given to six IO's totaling

                                                                                    
  $196,010,197 . Assistance for 15 NGO's ranged from $99,000 to $2.2 million,

                                                                                    
  with an average of $2.1 million.                                                  
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  In FY 05, more than $608 million was provided for programs worldwide by the       
  Bureau multilaterally through the United Nations and international organizations  
  and bilaterally to NGOs that fill gaps in the international community's           
  multilateral response. Of this amount, over $270 million supported programs in    
  Africa. Bureau funding was focused on three priority areas: (1) promoting access  
  to effective protection and first asylum for refugees and conflict victims, with  
  protection of women and children as a priority; (2) providing humanitarian        
  assistance across geographic regions and according to internationally accepted    
  standards; and (3) supporting voluntary repatriation, including sustainable       
  reintegration of refugees in countries of origin.                                 
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  All inquiries should be directed to the information contacts listed below.        
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  None.                                                                             
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Programmatic: Margaret McKelvey, Office Director, (202) 663-1027; Mary

                                                                                    
  Lange, Deputy Director, Central/Sahel/North Africa/Southern Africa, (202) 663-

                                                                                    
  1014; Carol-Anne Chang, Coastal West Africa, (202) 663-1031; Amy Wendt,

                                                                                    
  Horn of Africa, (202) 663-1014; Vacant, Great Lakes/Central Africa, (202)

                                                                                    
  663-1476; Neil Ahlsten, Chad (Sudanese refugees), (202) 663-1029. U.S.            
  Department of State, Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration, SA-1,         
  Suite L505, Washington, DC 20522-0105. Financial: U.S. Department of State,       
  Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration, Office of the Comptroller, SA-     
  1, Suite L303, Washington, DC 20522-0105, Telephone: 202/663-1022.                
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  www.state.gov/g/prm.

                                                                                    
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  None.

                                                                                    
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  None.

                                                                                    
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                   
  The Bureau's main objective is to help ensure that refugees and victims of

                                                                                    
  conflict have access to basic life-sustaining resources in ways that meet         
  internationally accepted standards of care in shelter, food supply, nutrition,    
  water supply, sanitation, and public health. NGO proposals should clearly use     
  SPHERE standards as the basis for design, implementation, and evaluation,         
  including proposed objectives and indicators. Underlying PRM's support for        


                                                                               11-08
  humanitarian assistance is a commitment to protection, targeted support to
  women, vulnerable individuals, coordination with relevant UN agencies and
  other NGOs, sustainability of programming, security, and capacity building.
  NGOs in search of Bureau funding would do well to address these specific areas
  in any proposals sent for funding.
19.518 OVERSEAS REFUGEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
FOR WESTERN HEMISPHERE
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  BUREAU OF POPULATION, REFUGEES, AND MIGRATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF STATE
AUTHORIZATION:
  The Migration and Refugee Assistance Act of 1962, as amended, (MRA) and 22
  U.S.C. 2601 et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  The civil conflict in Colombia continues to be a primary cause of displacement
  and humanitarian suffering in the Western Hemisphere. For the past several
  years, the Bureau in conjunction with the Government of Colombia,
  International Organizations, NGOs, and the international community has sought
  to address the needs of almost 3 million internally displaced persons (IDPs)
  inside Colombia, and thousands of refugees outside Colombia. While Colombia
  represents the most significant humanitarian assistance requirement in the
  region, ongoing programs of protection and humanitarian law dissemination
  throughout the hemisphere are needed to maintain capacity for dealing with the
  needs of refugees and conflict victims now and in the future, particularly in the
  Caribbean.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The cooperative agreement, grant or contribution provides funds to meet the
  organization's objectives as approved by the Bureau. Funding documents
  authorize funds based on the organization's budget submission after Bureau
  approval.
Applicant Eligibility:
  United Nations, international and non-governmental organizations. MRA
  designates primary UN or IO recipient organizations. NGO activities must be
  complementary to, and coordinated with, UN programs.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Refugees and victims of conflict requiring assistance.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Non-governmental organizations (NGOs) must submit proposals for the Bureau's
  consideration (international organizations submit appeals to the Bureau). NGOs
  may submit proposals at any time throughout the year to fill a need as it arises,
  with Bureau consideration granted shortly thereafter. Where there is a specific
  or immediate priority or need, the Bureau will issue policy and program
  guidelines and will invite NGOs to submit proposals by a specific deadline for
  Bureau review. NGO representatives are also encouraged to communicate
  directly with Bureau program officers regarding priorities and funding timelines.
   NGOs that have never received PRM funding must be prepared to demonstrate
  that their organizations meet the financial and accounting requirements of the
  U.S. Government before they can be eligible to receive Bureau funding.
Award Procedure:
  The Assistant Secretary of the Bureau makes funding decisions based on
  recommendations from the Bureau's Office of Policy and Resource Planning and
  other Bureau Offices. The Comptroller or Deputy Comptroller of the Bureau
  signs the cooperative agreement.
Deadlines:
  Deadlines vary according to the type of proposal being submitted. For new
  proposals, the deadline is no later than June 30 of the current fiscal year (unless
  an unforeseen emergency occurs that would necessitate additional funding
  beyond the stated deadline.) Proposals for follow-on programs are due 90-days
  before expiration of the current agreement. Proposals tied to specific program
  guidelines are due per the deadline of the program-issued guidelines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  None.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Renewals or extensions require additional approval.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Bureau's funds are intended to partially cover an organization's budget request
  with remaining funds expected from other resources.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Generally, funds are awarded for a 12-month period. Shorter time periods may
  also be authorized.
                                                                                   695
