Reports:                                                                              
  Quarterly financial reports are due forty-five days after the close of a calendar   
  year quarter. A preliminary final financial report is due 90 days after the         
  expiration of an agreement with a final financial due upon issuance of final        
  indirect cost rates. The Bureau program office may require additional reporting;    
  the organization will be notified of any additional reporting requirements          
  informally.                                                                         
Audits:                                                                               
  The Bureau's funds must be included in an appropriate audit or audits performed     
  by independent public accountants in accordance with U.S. Government                
  Auditing Standards established by the Comptroller General of the United States      
  covering financial audits. The audit must be performed to meet the provisions       
  of OMB Circular A-133- Revised, Audits of States, Local Governments, and            
  Non-Profit Organizations. The audit report is due 30 days after issuance or nine    
  months after the end of the audit period.                                           
Records:                                                                              
  The grantee shall maintain files for a three-year period after submission of final  
  financial report.                                                                   
Account Identification:                                                               
  19-1143-0-1-151.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  FY 07 est not available; FY 08 est not available; FY 09 est not reported.           
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  For FY 05 under MRA, assistance for the Western Hemisphere Andean region            
  was approximately $25.4 million, with the bulk ($16.4 million) going to             
  UNHCR and ICRC, our primary international organization partners in the              
  region. Assistance for five NGOs ranged from $356,500 to $1,287,858, with an        
  average of $979,667.                                                                
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  In FY 05, more than $608 million was provided for programs worldwide, by the        
  Bureau multilaterally through the United Nations and international organizations    
  and bilaterally to NGOs that fill gaps in the international community's             
  multilateral response. Bureau funding was focused on three priority areas: (1)      
  promoting access to effective protection and first asylum for refugees and          
  conflict victims, with protection of women and children as a priority; (2)          
  providing humanitarian assistance across geographic regions and according to        
  internationally accepted standards; and (3) supporting voluntary repatriation,      
  including sustainable reintegration of refugees in countries of origin.             
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  All inquiries should be directed to the information contacts listed below.          
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Programmatic: c/o Director, Office of Assistance for Europe, Central Asia and       
  the Americas, Email address: prm-eca@state.gov, Phone: 202/663-1062, FAX:           
  202/663-1530. U.S. Department of State, Bureau of Population, Refugees, and         
  Migration, SA-1, Suite L505, Washington, DC 20522-0105. Financial: Office           
  of the Comptroller, SA-1, Suite L303, Washington, DC 20522-0105,                    
  Telephone: 202/663-1022.                                                            
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  www.state.gov/g/prm.                                                                
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  None.                                                                               
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  The Bureau's main objective is to help ensure that refugees and victims of          
  conflict have access to basic life-sustaining resources in ways that meet           
  internationally accepted standards of care in shelter, food supply, nutrition,      
  water supply, sanitation, and public health. NGO proposals should clearly use       
  SPHERE standards as the basis for design, implementation, and evaluation,           
  including proposed objectives and indicators. Underlying PRM's support for          
  humanitarian assistance is a commitment to protection, targeted support to          
  women, vulnerable individuals, coordination with relevant UN agencies and           
  other NGOs, sustainability of programming, security, and capacity building.         
  NGOs in search of Bureau funding would do well to address these specific areas      
  in any proposals sent for funding.                                                  
                                                                                      
19.519 OVERSEAS REFUGEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM                                            
                                                                                      
FOR NEAR EAST AND SOUTH ASIA                                                          
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  BUREAU OF POPULATION, REFUGEES, AND MIGRATION,                                      
  DEPARTMENT OF STATE                                                                 
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  The Migration and Refugee Assistance Act of 1962, as amended (MRA), 22              
  U.S.C. 2601 et seq.                                                                 
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  In the Near East: Return and reintegration assistance of up to two million Iraqi    
  refugees, recent returnees, and internally displaced persons (IDPs) is a high       


696                                                                             11-08

  priority to the Bureau. Programs will support return and reintegration activities
  for voluntary returnees, as well as assist existing populations in neighboring
  countries until refugees elect for voluntary return. Programs inside Iraq will also
  help strengthen local structures so that Iraqi government policies and programs
  will be responsive to refugees and other victims of conflict. The Bureau
  supports UN programs that provide some stability in the lives of the 4.3 million
  Palestinian refugee population in an increasingly difficult environment and
  contributes to building a climate conducive to a peaceful resolution of regional
  problems. In South Asia: The Bureau will continue support for the
  unprecedented, large-scale return and reintegration programs for Afghan
  refugees and IDPs, although at reduced financial levels. The Bureau will also
  continue supporting protection and assistance activities for many of the 3.5
  million refugees who remain in Pakistan and Iran and who may not repatriate in
  2006 due to the security situation, persecution of certain ethnic groups, and
  Afghanistan's limited capacity to absorb additional returnees. India is host to
  over 130,000 Tibetan refugees. Congressionally earmarked funds administered
  by PRM supports the Tibet Fund's assistance of approximately 2,500 new
  Tibetan refugees who arrive in India each year. PRM's regional contribution to
  UNHCR also supports protection, care and maintenance for 106,000 Bhutanese
  refugees in southeastern Nepal.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The cooperative agreement, grant or contribution provides funds to meet the
  organization's objectives as approved by the Bureau. Funding documents
  authorize funds based on the organization's budget submission after Bureau
  approval.
Applicant Eligibility:
  United Nations, international and non- governmental organizations. MRA
  designates primary UN or IO recipient organizations. NGO activities must be
  complementary to, and coordinated with, UN programs.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Refugees and victims of conflict requiring assistance.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Non-governmental organizations (NGOs) must submit proposals for the Bureau's
  consideration (international organizations submit appeals to the Bureau). NGOs
  may submit proposals any time throughout the year to fill a need as it arises,
  with Bureau consideration granted shortly thereafter. Where there is a specific
  or immediate priority or need, the Bureau will issue policy and program
  guidelines and will invite NGOs to submit proposals by a specific deadline for
  Bureau review. NGO representatives are also encouraged to communicate
  directly with Bureau program officers regarding priorities and funding timelines.
   NGOs that have never received PRM funding must be prepared to demonstrate
  that their organizations meet the financial and accounting requirements of the
  U.S. Government before they can be eligible to receive Bureau funding.
Award Procedure:
  The Assistant Secretary of the Bureau makes funding decisions based on
  recommendations from the Bureau's Office of Policy and Resource Planning and
  the Comptroller or Deputy Comptroller of the Bureau signs the cooperative
  agreement.
Deadlines:
  Deadlines vary according to the type of proposal being submitted. For new
  proposals, the deadline is no later than June 30 of the current fiscal year (unless
  an unforeseen emergency occurs that would necessitate additional funding
  beyond the stated deadline.) Proposals for follow-on programs are due 90-days
  before expiration of the current agreement. Proposals tied to specific program
  guidelines are due per the deadline of the program-issued guidelines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  None.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Renewals or extensions require additional approval.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Bureau's funds are intended to partially cover an organization's budget request
  with remaining funds expected from other resources.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Generally, funds are awarded for a 12-month period. Shorter time periods may
  also be authorized.
Reports:
  Quarterly financial reports are due forty-five days after the close of a calendar
  year quarter. A preliminary final financial report is due 90 days after the
  expiration of an agreement with a final financial due upon issuance of final
  indirect cost rates. The Bureau program office may require additional reporting;
  the organization will be notified of any additional reporting requirements
  informally.
