Audits:                                                                             
  The Bureau's funds must be included in an appropriate audit or audits performed   
  by independent public accountants in accordance with U.S. Government              
  Auditing Standards established by the Comptroller General of the United States    
  covering financial audits. The audit must be performed to meet the provisions     
  of OMB Circular A-133- Revised, Audits of States, Local Governments, and          
  Non-Profit Organizations. The audit report is due 30 days after issuance or nine  
  months after the end of the audit period.                                         
Records:                                                                            
  The grantee shall maintain files for a three-year period after submission of final
  financial report.                                                                 
Account Identification:                                                             
  19-1143-0-1-151.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  FY 07 not available; FY 08 est not available; FY 09 est not reported.             
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  For FY 05, assistance for the Near East and South Asia was given to four IO's     
  totaling $142.8 million. Assistance for 16 NGO's ranged from $55,481 to $2        
  million, with an average of $938,861.                                             
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  In FY 05, more than $608 million was provided by the Bureau multilaterally        
  through the United Nations and international organizations and bilaterally to     
  NGOs that fill gaps in the international community's multilateral response. .     
  Bureau funding was focused on three priority areas: (1) promoting access to       
  effective protection and first asylum for refugees and conflict victims, with     
  protection of women and children as a priority; (2) providing humanitarian        
  assistance across geographic regions and according to internationally accepted    
  standards; and (3) supporting voluntary repatriation, including sustainable       
  reintegration of refugees in countries of origin.                                 
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  All inquiries should be directed to the information contacts listed below.        
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  None.                                                                             
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Programmatic: Richard Albright, Office Director, (202) 663-1063; Larry            
  Bartlett, Deputy Director (202) 663-1065Afghan Team: Dan Kronenfeld, , (202)      
  663-3717 and Martha Amlin, (202) 663-1037; elsewhere in South Asia and            
  Northeast Asia; Melissa Pitotti, , (202) 663-1950; Near East/UNRWA: George        
  Aldridge (202) 663-1531; Iraq Team: Bill Lehmberg, (202) 663-3442 and Liana       
  Brooks-Rubin (202) 663-1012; Southeast Asia and Tibet: Eileen Kelley, (202)       
  663-3715. U.S. Department of State, Bureau of Population, Refugees, and           
  Migration, SA-1, Suite L505, Washington, DC 20522-010. Financial: U.S.            
  Department of State, Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration, Office of     
  the Comptroller, SA-1, Suite L505, Washington, DC 20522-0105, Telephone:          
  202/663-1022.                                                                     
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  www.state.gov/g/prm                                                               
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  None.                                                                             
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  None.                                                                             
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                   
  The Bureau's main objective is to help ensure that refugees and victims of        
  conflict have access to basic life-sustaining resources in ways that meet         
  internationally accepted standards of care in shelter, food supply, nutrition,    
  water supply, sanitation, and public health. NGO proposals should clearly use     
  SPHERE standards as the basis for design, implementation, and evaluation,         
  including proposed objectives and indicators. Underlying PRM's support for        
  humanitarian assistance is a commitment to protection, targeted support to        
  women, vulnerable individuals, coordination with relevant UN agencies and         
  other NGOs, sustainability of programming, security, and capacity building.       
  NGOs in search of Bureau funding would do well to address these specific areas    
  in any proposals sent for funding.                                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
19.520 OVERSEAS REFUGEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS                                         
FOR EUROPE                                                                          
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     
  BUREAU OF POPULATION, REGUGEES, AND MIGRATION,                                    
  DEPARTMENT OF STATE                                                               
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                      
  The Migration and Refugee Assistance Act of 1962, as amended (MRA), 22            
  U.S.C. 2601 et seq.                                                               
OBJECTIVES:                                                                         
  Funding of organizations that assist refugees and IDPs in Europe and Central      
  Asia will be at a reduced level this year compared to FY05. In the North and      
  South Caucasus the Bureau - in conjunction with International Organizations,      
  NGOs, and the international community -- will continue to provide life-           
  sustaining assistance to the most vulnerable IDPs and refugees produced by the    
  continuing conflict in Chechnya and the frozen conflicts in Georgia, Armenia,     


                                                                               11-08
  and Azerbaijan. In the Balkans, programs that assist minority IDP returns to
  Kosovo from Serbia-Montenengro and Macedonia, as well as the local
  integration of refugees and IDPs in Serbia are the focus of our funding. In
  Central Asia, the Bureau will continue support for refugees, IDPs, asylum
  seekers and stateless people.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The cooperative agreement, grant or contribution provides funds to meet the
  organization's objectives as approved by the Bureau. Funding documents
  authorize funds based on the organization's budget submission after Bureau
  approval.
Applicant Eligibility:
  United Nations, international and non- governmental organizations. MRA
  designates primary UN or IO recipient organizations. NGO activities must be
  complementary to, and coordinated with, UN programs.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Refugees and victims of conflict requiring assistance.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Non-governmental organizations (NGOs) must submit proposals for the Bureau's
  consideration (international organizations submit appeals to the Bureau). NGOs
  may submit proposals at any time throughout the year to fill a need as it arises,
  with Bureau consideration granted shortly thereafter. Where there is a specific
  or immediate priority or need, the Bureau will issue policy and program
  guidelines and will invite NGOs to submit proposals by a specific deadline for
  Bureau review. NGO representatives are also encouraged to communicate
  directly with Bureau program officers regarding priorities and funding timelines.
   NGOs that have never received PRM funding must be prepared to demonstrate
  that their organizations meet the financial and accounting requirements of the
  U.S. Government before they can be eligible to receive Bureau funding.
Award Procedure:
  The Assistant Secretary of the Bureau makes funding decisions based on
  recommendations from the Bureau's Office of Policy and Resource Planning and
  other Bureau offices. The Comptroller or Deputy Comptroller of the Bureau
  signs the cooperative agreement.
Deadlines:
  Deadlines vary according to the type of proposal being submitted. For new
  proposals, the deadline is no later than June 30 of the current fiscal year (unless
  an unforeseen emergency occurs that would necessitate additional funding
  beyond the stated deadline.) Proposals for follow-on programs are due 90-days
  before expiration of the current agreement. Proposals tied to specific program
  guidelines are due per the deadline of the program-issued guidelines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Not applicable.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Renewals or extensions require additional approval.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Bureau's funds are intended to partially cover an organization's budget request
  with remaining funds expected from other resources.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Generally, funds are awarded for a 12-month period. Shorter time periods may
  also be authorized.
Reports:
  Quarterly financial reports are due forty-five days after the close of a calendar
  year quarter. A preliminary final financial report is due 90 days after the
  expiration of an agreement with a final financial due upon issuance of final
  indirect cost rates. The Bureau program office may require additional reporting;
  the organization will be notified of any additional reporting requirements
  informally.
Audits:
  The Bureau's funds must be included in an appropriate audit or audits performed
  by independent public accountants in accordance with U.S. Government
  Auditing Standards established by the Comptroller General of the United States
  covering financial audits. The audit must be performed to meet the provisions
  of OMB Circular A-133- Revised, Audits of States, Local Governments, and
  Non-Profit Organizations. The audit report is due 30 days after issuance or nine
  months after the end of the audit period.
Records:
  The grantee shall maintain files for a three-year period after submission of final
  financial report.
Account Identification:
  19-1143-0-1-151.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $40,000,000; FY 08 est not available; FY 09 est not reported.
                                                                                   697
