Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  In FY 05 under MRA, assistance for Europe was given to 6 IO's totaling $41.1       
  million. Assistance for 10 NGOs ranged from $115,264 to $1,797,419, with an        
  average of $803,176.                                                               
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  In FY05, more than $608 million was provided for programs worldwide, by the        
  Bureau multilaterally through the United Nations and international organizations   
  and bilaterally to NGOs that fill gaps in the international community's            
  multilateral response. Bureau funding was focused on three priority areas: (1)     
  promoting access to effective protection and first asylum for refugees and         
  conflict victims, with protection of women and children as a priority; (2)         
  providing humanitarian assistance across geographic regions and according to       
  internationally accepted standards; and (3) supporting voluntary repatriation,     
  including sustainable reintegration of refugees in countries of origin.            
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  All inquiries should be directed to the information contacts listed below.         
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Programmatic: PRM c/o Director, Office of Assistance to Europe, Central Asia       
  and the Americas. Email address: prm-eca@state.gov, Phone: 202-663-1062,           
  FAX: 202/663-1530. U.S. Department of State, Bureau of Population, Refugees,       
  and Migration, SA-1, Suite L505, Washington, DC 20522-0105. Financial: U.S.        
  Department of State, Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration, Office of      
  the Comptroller, SA-1, Suite L303, Washington, DC 20522-010: Telephone:            
  (202) 663-1022.                                                                    
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  www.state.gov/g/prm                                                                
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  None.                                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  None.                                                                              
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  The Bureau's main objective is to help ensure that refugees and victims of         
  conflict have access to basic life-sustaining resources in ways that meet          
  internationally accepted standards of care in shelter, food supply, nutrition,     
  water supply, sanitation, and public health. NGO proposals should clearly use      
  SPHERE standards as the basis for design, implementation, and evaluation,          
  including proposed objectives and indicators. Underlying PRM's support for         
  humanitarian assistance is a commitment to protection, targeted support to         
  women, vulnerable individuals, coordination with relevant UN agencies and          
  other NGOs, sustainability of programming, security, and capacity building.        
  NGOs in search of Bureau funding would do well to address these specific areas     
  in any proposals sent for funding.                                                 
                                                                                     
19.522 OVERSEAS REFUGEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS                                          
                                                                                     
FOR STRATEGIC GLOBAL PRIORITIES                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  BUREAU OF POPULATION, REFUGEES, AND MIGRATION,                                     
  DEPARTMENT OF STATE                                                                
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  The Migration and Refugee Assistance Act of 1962, as amended; (MRA) and 22         
  U.S.C. 2601 et seq.                                                                
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  Bureau support under this program includes mostly contributions to the             
  headquarters and global program costs of the United Nations High                   
  Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), the headquarters budget of the                  
  International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) and to a smaller extent, the       
  multiregional refugee activities of other international and non-governmental       
  organizations. A particular emphasis of this support is to promote initiatives in  
  areas that are cross-cutting, core global Bureau priorities, such as refugee       
  women, refugee children, prevention and response to gender-based violence          
  (including sexual exploitation), enhancing refugee protection, and health,         
  including HIV/AIDS prevention.                                                     
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                           
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  The cooperative agreement, grant or contribution provides funds to meet the        
  organization's objectives as approved by the Bureau. Funding documents             
  authorize funds based on the organization's budget submission after Bureau         
  approval.                                                                          
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  United Nations, international and non-governmental organizations. MRA              
  designates primary UN or IO recipient organizations. NGO activities must be        
  complementary to, and coordinated with, UN programs.                               
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Refugees and victims of conflict requiring assistance.                             
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  None.                                                                              


698                                                                            11-08

Preapplication Coordination:
  Application Procedure. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O.
  12372.
Application Procedure:
  Application Procedure: Non-governmental organizations (NGOs) must submit
  proposals for the Bureau's consideration (international organizations submit
  appeals to the Bureau). NGOs may submit proposals at any time throughout the
  year to fill a need as it arises, with Bureau consideration granted shortly
  thereafter. Where there is a specific or immediate priority or need, the Bureau
  will issue policy and program guidelines and will invite NGOs to submit
  proposals by a specific deadline for Bureau review. NGO representatives are
  also encouraged to communicate directly with Bureau program officers
  regarding priorities and funding timelines. NGOs that have never received PRM
  funding must be prepared to demonstrate that their organizations meet the
  financial and accounting requirements of the U.S. Government before they can
  be eligible to receive Bureau funding.
Award Procedure:
  The Assistant Secretary of the Bureau makes funding decisions based on
  recommendations from the Bureau's Office of Policy and Resource Planning and
  other Bureau offices. The Comptroller or Deputy Comptroller of the Bureau
  signs the cooperative agreement.
Deadlines:
  Deadlines vary according to the type of proposal being submitted. For new
  proposals, the deadline is no later than June 30 of the current fiscal year (unless
  an unforeseen emergency occurs that would necessitate additional funding
  beyond the stated deadline.) Proposals for follow-on programs are due 90-days
  before expiration of the current agreement. Proposals tied to specific program
  guidelines are due per the deadline of the program-issued guidelines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  None.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Renewals or extensions require additional approval.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Formula: Bureau's funds are intended to partially cover an organization's budget
  request with remaining funds expected from other resources.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Generally, funds are awarded for a 12-month period. Shorter time periods may
  also be authorized.
Reports:
  Quarterly financial reports are due forty-five days after the close of a calendar
  year quarter. A preliminary final financial report is due 90 days after the
  expiration of an agreement with a final financial due upon issuance of final
  indirect cost rates. The Bureau program office may require additional reporting;
  the organization will be notified of any additional reporting requirements
  informally.
Audits:
  The Bureau's funds must be included in an appropriate audit or audits performed
  by independent public accountants in accordance with U.S. Government
  Auditing Standards established by the Comptroller General of the United States
  covering financial audits. The audit must be performed to meet the provisions
  of OMB Circular A-133- Revised, Audits of States, Local Governments, and
  Non-Profit Organizations. The audit report is due 30 days after issuance or nine
  months after the end of the audit period.
Records:
  The grantee shall maintain files for a three-year period after submission of final
  financial report.
Account Identification:
  19-1143-0-1-151.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $63,000,000; FY 08 est not available; FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  In FY05, assistance for Strategic Global Priorities was given to four IOs totaling
  $55.3 million. Assistance for nine NGOs ranged from $27,375 to $390,515,
  with an average of $382,506.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY 05, more than $608 million was provided by the Bureau multilaterally
  through the United Nations and international organizations and bilaterally to
  NGOs that fill gaps in the international community's multilateral response.
  Bureau funding was focused on three priority areas: (1) promoting access to
  effective protection and first asylum for refugees and conflict victims, with
  protection of women and children as a priority; (2) providing humanitarian
  assistance across geographic regions and according to internationally accepted
  standards; and (3) supporting voluntary repatriation, including sustainable
  reintegration of refugees in countries of origin.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  All inquiries should be directed to the information contacts listed below.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
