                                               DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

20.100 AVIATION EDUCATION                                                             
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF                                      
  TRANSPORTATION                                                                      
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Airport and Airway Development Act of 1970, as amended, Section 301, Public         
  Law 94-353, Section 21, 49 U.S.C. 1346a.                                            
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To promote "Aviation Knowledge through Education"; create a public awareness        
  of the need to promote the development and enhancement of education in              
  aviation; establish a civil aviation information distribution program within each   
  region and center of the Federal Aviation Administration; promote "safety in the    
  skies through aviation education"; create "career awareness" in aviation at the     
  elementary and secondary educational levels; prepare qualified individuals to       
  meet the future need of aviation; stimulate public and private sector initiative in 
  meeting the American and worldwide competitive challenge in science and             
  technology; aid educators by providing aviation information they can readily use    
  in their normal classroom curriculum or in special classroom projects, to           
  improve communication skills, math, science, technology, and computer literacy      
  as it relates to aviation; and help educators identify the learning needs of our    
  society in this rapidly changing technological era.                                 
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Advisory Services and Counseling.                                                   
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Encouragement of the development of Civil Aviation Information Distribution         
  programs. EDUCATIONAL SERVICES. This is "aviation in the classroom" and             
  includes all aspects of student, teacher, school, coordination with other national  
  educational programs; INTERNATIONAL, NATIONAL, REGIONAL AND                         
  STATE COMMUNITY RELATIONS. Develops and gives support to                            
  strengthening the regions, state, and local communities in their ability to perform 
  the tasks and functions of Aviation Education within their respective areas.        
  Includes workshops, conferences, youth programs, teacher education, public          
  education, and other programs, materials, and resource planning support.            
  Liaison with all International, National, Regions, and State aviation and           
  education officials and organizations. INFORMATION SERVICES. Includes               
  electronic websites, data gathering and dissemination, and communications.          
  The Aviation Education Program utilizes all segments of the FAA workforce as        
  catalysts and aviation interest groups' support of education in assuring the        
  availability of qualified human resources and improving public understanding of     
  the economic and social importance of an efficient and safe air transportation      
  system.                                                                             
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Aviation and education administrators, school, college and university officials,    
  officers of civil organizations, and domestic and international governments,        
  aviation industry, and education organizations.                                     
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Aviation and education administrators, school, college and university officials,    
  officers of civil organizations, and domestic and international governments,        
  aviation industry, and education organizations.                                     
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  None.

                                                                                      
Preapplication Coordination:

                                                                                      
  None. There are no financial awards or grants available. This program is

                                                                                      
  excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.

                                                                                      
Application Procedure:

                                                                                      
  Applications take the form of a written request for Aviation Education materials

                                                                                      
  or counseling to an FAA regional or Headquarters office.

                                                                                      
Award Procedure:

                                                                                      
  None.

Deadlines:                                                                            
  None.                                                                               
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Appeals:                                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Renewals:                                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Reports:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Audits:                                                                               
  None.                                                                               
Records:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               


700                                                                             11-08

Account Identification:
  69-1301-0-1-402.
Obligations:
  (Salaries and expenses) FY 07 $0; FY 08 est $0; and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Not applicable.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Continued to implement Aviation and Space Education (AVSED) Local
  Counselor Program (volunteer FAA employees); provided consultant assistance
  to schools and colleges; continued to establish "Partnerships-in-Education"
  among industry, education, and government. Priorities established by the
  AVSED Strategic Plan included creative leadership that commits FAA to
  become the internationally recognized authority on aviation and space
  education. This would be both consistent and reinforcing of FAA's mission to
  maintain America's preeminence in aviation. In addition, creative leadership in
  education demonstrates FAA's commitment to support the President's initiative
  of No Child Left Behind. AVSED's plan is the integration of aerospace thematic
  Science Technology Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) curriculum into
  education and to expand and create synergistic partnerships that support this
  inclusion into state education frameworks. FAA's existing base of enthusiastic
  volunteers, aviation and space education national, regional, and center program
  managers offer a national network focused upon promoting U.S. aviation. For
  example, we continue to work with the National Association of State Aviation
  Officials (NASAO) and the National Coalition for Aviation Education (NCAE)
  to emphasize and expand outreach linkages. The states have Constitutional
  authority for education; therefore, State partnerships provide the infrastructure
  and mechanism for implementing and sustaining federally initiated programs on
  a national level. Thus, to achieve this goal, FAA must continue to pro-actively
  increase FAA's internal and external partnerships. Consistent with the National
  Performance Review, the AVSED plan calls for a refocusing and reengineering
  of aviation and space education programs. Refocusing permits the FAA to better
  accomplish its mission to "foster the growth of aviation." Also, declining
  resources and new technologies makes it imperative that aviation programs be
  reengineered. Following is the list of aviation and space education programs. (1)
  Aviation and Space Education web site, www.faa.gov/education, is an on-line
  computer-based information service that links the education community and the
  Federal government to educational information services. The web site provides a
  complete agency organizational and program profile for university
  administrators, professors, teachers, students and the general public. Information
  on aviation and space education programs and resources available from FAA
  national, regions, and centers, and facilities may be included in the database.
  Details on aviation and space education initiatives and aviation industry special
  interest groups are also available. All FAA Aviation and Space Education
  materials and curriculum are located on the web site and are down loadable for
  reproduction. (2) FAA Aviation and Space Education Volunteer Counselor
  Program: FAA will select, provide orientation, and appoint volunteer resource
  personnel to coordinate with headquarters, region and center aviation and space
  education program managers to implement FAA aviation and space education
  programs. FAA volunteers are designed as official Aviation and Space
  Education Counselors. The Counselors will assist FAA in promoting aviation
  and space education and fostering a wider knowledge, and better understanding
  of FAA, the National Airspace System, and civil aviation in America. There has
  been one counselor workshop conducted in headquarters in 2006 and there are
  plans to conduct six counselor workshops in regions in 2007. (3) Government-
  Industry-Education Partnerships: partnerships such as, NASAO, Organization
  of Black Airline Pilots (OBAP), International Black Aerospace Council (IBAC)
  and NCAE, increase public awareness and enhancement of the role of aviation,
  and support aviation and space education programs at all levels of the
  educational system. These private/public sector or government
  educationpartnerships are increasingly important as we move towards our goal
  of increasing STEM educational awareness. Each partnership yields additional
  resources to support the FAA's aviation and space education program initiatives.
  In fiscal year 2004, FAA formalized two new partnership; one with Women in
  Aviation International and one with the Experimental Aircraft Association. In
  2005, FAA formed a partnership with Civil Air Patrol.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  "FAA order 1250.2A".
Regional or Local Office:
  Contact the Aviation Information Distribution Program person listed in appendix
  IV.
Headquarters Office:
  Office of the Assistant Administrator for Region and Center Operations, 800
  Independence Avenue S.W., Washington, DC 20590. National Headquarter/s
  Office for the Program Implementation, Office of the Regional Administrator,
  12 New england Executive Park, Burlington, MA 01803.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.faa.gov./education.
