RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                         
  43.001, Aerospace Education Services Program.                                           
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                         
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                         
  Not applicable.                                                                         
                                                                                          
20.106 AIRPORT IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM                                                        
                                                                                          
   (AIP)                                                                                  
                                                                                          
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                           
  FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF                                          
  TRANSPORTATION                                                                          
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                            
  Public Law 103-272.                                                                     
OBJECTIVES:                                                                               
  To assist sponsors, owners, or operators of public-use airports in the                  
  development of a nationwide system of airports adequate to meet the needs of            
  civil aeronautics.                                                                      
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                      
  Project Grants; Advisory Services and Counseling.                                       
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

                                                                                          
  Grants can be made for integrated airport system planning in a specific area; and

                                                                                          
  airport master planning, construction, or rehabilitation at a public-use airport or

                                                                                          
  portion thereof. Authorizing legislation refers to an airport as any area of land or

                                                                                          
  water used or intended to be used for the landing or taking off of aircraft and

                                                                                          
  includes, within the five categories of airports listed below, special types of

                                                                                          
  facilities such as seaplane bases and heliports. The statute further defines

                                                                                          
  airports by categories which include commercial service, primary, cargo service,

                                                                                          
  reliever, and general aviation airports. They are defined as follows: Commercial

                                                                                          
  Service Airports are publicly owned airports that have at least 2,500 passenger

                                                                                          
  boarding each year and receive scheduled passenger service. Passenger boarding

                                                                                          
  refer to revenue passenger boarding on an aircraft in service in air commerce.

                                                                                          
  The definition also includes passengers who continue on an aircraft in

                                                                                          
  international flight that stops at an airport in any of the 50 states for a non traffic

                                                                                          
  purpose. Passenger boarding at airports that receive scheduled passenger service

                                                                                          
  are also referred to as Enplanements. Nonprimary Commercial Service Airports

                                                                                          
  are Commercial Service Airports that have at least 2,500 and no more than

                                                                                          
  10,000 passenger boarding each year. Primary Airports are Commercial Service

                                                                                          
  Airports that have more than 10,000 passenger boarding each year. These

                                                                                          
  airports are further categorized as Hub Airports, based on the level of passenger

                                                                                          
  boarding. Hub categories for Primary Airports are defined as a percentage of

                                                                                          
  total passenger boarding in the most current calendar year ending before the start

                                                                                          
  of the current fiscal year. The definition and formulae used for designating            
  Primary Airports by Hub Type and Percentage of Annual Passenger Boarding                
  are: Large 1 percent or more; Medium - at least 0.25 percent, but less than 1           
  percent; Small - at least 0.05 percent, but less than 0.25 percent; and Non hub -       
  more than 10,000, but less than 0.05 percent. Cargo Service Airports are airports       
  that, in addition to any other air transportation services that may be available,       
  are served by aircraft providing air transportation of only cargo with a total          
  annual landed weight of more than 100 million pounds. Reliever Airports are             
  airports designated by the FAA to relieve congestion at a Commercial Service            
  Airport and to provide more general aviation access to the overall community.           
  The remaining airports, while not specifically defined in Title 49 U.S.C., are          
  referred to as General Aviation Airports and comprise the largest single group of       
  airports in the U.S. airport system. Eligible work at airports consists of: (1)         
  airport master plans; (2) airport noise compatibility plans; (3) land acquisition;      
  (4) site preparation; (5) construction, alteration, and rehabilitation of runways,      
  taxiways, aprons, and certain roads within airport boundaries; (6) construction         
  and installation of airfield lighting, navigational aids, and certain offsite work;     
  (7) safety equipment required for certification of airport facility; (8) security       
  equipment required of the sponsor by the Secretary of Transportation by rule or         
  regulation for the safety and security of persons and property on the airport; (9)      
  snow-removal equipment; (10) terminal development; (11) aviation-related                
  weather reporting equipment; (12) equipment to measure runway surface                   
  friction; (13) burn area training structures and land for that purpose, on or off       
  airport; (14) agency-approved noise compatibility projects; (15) relocation of air      
  traffic control towers and navigational aids (including radar) if they impede           
  other projects funded under AIP; (16) land, paving, drainage, aircraft deicing          
  equipment and structures for centralized deicing areas; and (17) projects to            
  comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, Clean Air Act, and             
  Federal Water Pollution Control. Under limitedcriteria construction                     
  ofhangarsand automobile parking is eligible. Grants may not Be made for the             
  construction of hangars, most automobile parking facilities, buildings not related      
  to the safety of persons on the airport, decorative landscaping or artwork, or          
  routine maintenance and repair. Technical advisory services are also provided.          
  Formula funds are available to primary commercial service airports and to cargo         
  service airports. Discretionary funds may be used at any eligible facility.             
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                    


                                                                                    11-08 
  States, counties, municipalities, U.S. Territories and possessions, other public
  agencies including an Indian tribe or pueblo, the republics of the Marshall
  Islands and Palau, and the Federated States of Micronesia, are eligible for airport
  development grants if the airport on which the development is required is listed
  in the National Plan of Integrated Airport Systems (NPIAS). Certain units of
  local government may be eligible for grants to implement noise compatibility
  projects. Private owners of public-use reliever airports or airports having at least
  2,500 passenger boarding annually and receiving scheduled passenger aircraft
  service are eligible.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  States, counties, municipalities, U.S. Territories and possessions, and other
  public agencies including an Indian tribe or pueblo, the republics of the Marshall
  Islands and Palau, The Federated States of Micronesia, and private owners of
  reliever airports or airports having at least 2,500 passenger boarding annually
  and receiving scheduled passenger aircraft service.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Sponsors must submit information establishing financial capability and legal
  authority to accomplish the project and to operate the airport. Costs will be
  determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local
  governments.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review. A Preapplication conference is
  recommended but not required. Consultation and assistance available at FAA
  Offices. Applications should be reviewed under the provisions of the National
  Environmental Policy Act of 1969, 83 Stat. 852; and Section 4(f) of the
  Department of Transportation Act, 49 U.S.C. 1653. An environmental
  assessment will be needed for some projects. The standard application forms as
  furnished by the Federal agency and required by 49 CFR 18, Uniform
  Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State
  and Local Governments, must be used for this program.
Application Procedure:
  Preapplication for Federal Assistance, SF 424, Part I (facesheet) filed with FAA
  field office, reviewed by the regional office and/or Washington office for
  program approval, as appropriate. For master plans (may be combined as part of
  development project), noise compatibility plans, and system plans, SF-424 and
  Parts II through V of FAA Form 5100-101, Application for Federal Assistance,
  must be submitted to FAA field offices. Level of approval is dependent on the
  type of airport and amount of FAA monies requested. No State plan is required.
  This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-110.
Award Procedure:
  Upon program approval for development projects, applicant submits project
  application, SF 424, Part I (facesheet) and remaining parts of FAA Form 5100-
  100 to FAA field office. Master, noise compatibility, and system plan grant
  applications are submitted to FAA field offices and upon approval, grant offers
  are made by FAA field offices. Either the district or regional office prepares
  Grant Offer, FAA Form 5100-37, for planning and development for execution by
  FAA applicant.
Deadlines:
  Primary airport sponsors must notify FAA by January 31 or another date
  specified in the Federal Register of their intent to apply for funds to which they
  are entitled under Section 47102 of Title 49, United States Code. A reminder is
  published annually in the Federal Register. Other sponsors are encouraged to
  submit early in the fiscal year and to contact the appropriate FAA field office for
  any local deadlines. Sponsors must formally accept grant offers no later than
  September 30 for grant funds appropriated in that fiscal year.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 90 to 120 days. If the project is challenged on environmental grounds,
  approval may take longer.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Current Federal government share of allowable costs are as follows. (1) Projects
  at large and medium hub primary commercial service airports: Airport
  development, 75 percent; terminal development, 75 percent; noise compatibility
  program implementation, 80 percent; master planning and noise compatibility
  planning, 75 percent. (2) Projects at all other public use airports (includes
  commercial service other than large and medium hub general aviation, reliever,
  other commercial service, and eligible privately owned airports): Airport
  development, noise compatibility program implementation, terminal
  development, airport planning and noise compatibility planning all at 90
  percent. Currently through FY 2007, there is a temporary increase to 95 percent
  for these airports. Entities eligible to sponsor system planning studies include
  State, local and federally recognized tribal governments, designated metropolitan
  planning organizations, U.S. Territories and possessions, the Republics of the
                                                                                    701
