  None.                                                                               
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Aviation Research Grants Program, AJP-7550 William J. Hughes Technical              
  Center, Atlantic City International Airport, NJ 08405. Telephone: (609) 485-        
  4781. Fax: (609) 485-6509.                                                          
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.tc.faa.gov/logistics/grants.                                             
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  20.109, Air Transportation Centers of Excellence.                                   
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Research and development in Satellite navigation; Aircraft Structural mechanics     
  and materials; De-icing Fluids; Cockpit Human Factors; Aviation Security.           
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  The FAA has established four criteria which should be met for a proposal to be      
  eligible for funding. These four criteria are: (1) Intrinsic Value; (2)Relevance to 
  the FAA Mission; (3) Technical Soundness of the Proposal; (4)Research               
  Performance Competence.                                                             
                                                                                      
20.109 AIR TRANSPORTATION CENTERS OF                                                  
EXCELLENCE                                                                            
                                                                                      
   (FAA Centers of Excellence)                                                        
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF                                      
  TRANSPORTATION                                                                      
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Federal Aviation Administration Research, Engineering and Development               
  Authorization Act of 1990, Public Law 101- 508; Catastrophic Failure                
  Prevention Centers of Excellence, Section 9208; Aviation Research Centers of        
  Excellence, Section 9209.                                                           
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To conduct long term continuing research in specific areas of aviation related      
  technology. Responsibilities of Centers may include but not limited to: the         
  conduct of research concerning catastrophic failure of aircraft; airspace and       
  airport planning and design; airport capacity enhancement techniques; human         
  performance in the air transportation environment; aviation safety and security;    
  the supply of trained air transportation personnel including pilots and             
  mechanics; and other aviation issues pertinent to developing and maintaining a      
  safe and efficient air transportation system, and the interpretation, publication,  
  and dissemination of the results of such research.                                  
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants; Use of Property, Facilities, and Equipment; Provision of            
  Specialized Services.                                                               
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Centers of Excellence are established for long term continuing mission critical     
  research in specific areas of technology. Funding may be used for the               
  establishment and operation of the Centers of Excellence and the related            
  training, education and research projects. The FAA determines a need for a          
  Center of Excellence in a specific area of technology and publishes a Notice of     
  Availability of Solicitation in Grants.gov. In response to this announcement,       
  each applicant submits a description of their institutional capabilities, available 
  faculty, facilities and equipment, and additional information as required in the    
  solicitation. Researchers at each Center are expected to maintain a close working   
  relationship with relevant FAA program offices that have responsibility in areas    
  related to their research. Centers conduct semi-annual reviews, and a major         
  symposium at the conclusion of each 3-year phase of research to satisfy             
  Congressional requirements to disseminate results to a broad audience.              
  CONGRESSIONAL RESTRICTIONS: (1) Matching Funds - Federal grants                     
  awarded shall be 50 percent of the cost of establishing and operating the Center    
  of Excellence and related research activities. (2) Maintenance of Effort - Each     
  recipient will maintain its aggregate expenditures from all other sources for       
  establishing and operating the Center and related research activities at or above   
  the average level of such expenditures in its 2 fiscal years preceding November     
  5, 1990. (3) Locations shall be geographically equitable. 4. Contract tasks are     
  awarded on a negotiable cost share basis*.                                          
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Applicants are limited to colleges and universities with the financial resources to 
  meet statutory requirements for matching Federal funds and maintenance of           
  effort. Academic institutions may partner with industry affiliates and other        
  government laboratories.                                                            
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Recipients are limited to colleges and universities with the financial resources to 
  meet statutory requirements for matching Federal grants and maintenance of          
  effort. In conducting research, a Center of Excellence may contract with            
  nonprofit research organizations and other appropriate persons.                     
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Required documentation is outlined in each solicitation package. After each         
  Notice of Solicitation is published, copies of the Solicitation are available during
  a Public Meeting and/or from the FAA Centers of Excellence Program Office,          


                                                                                 11-08
  FAA Technical Center, Atlantic City International Airport, NJ 08405. To
  establish a Center of Excellence, a competitive process is conducted to include a
  public announcement, publication of a solicitation, a management/fiscal review
  and technical evaluation. Public Law 101-508 established the following six
  selection criteria: (1) The extent to which the needs of the State in which the
  applicant is located are representative of the needs of the region for improved air
  transportation services and facilities. (2) The demonstrated research and
  extension resources available to the applicant for carrying out this program. (3)
  The capability of the applicant to provide leadership in making national and
  regional contributions to the solution of both long- range and immediate air
  transportation problems. (4) The extent to which the applicant has an established
  air transportation program. (5) The demonstrated ability of the applicant to
  disseminate results of air transportation research and educational programs
  through a State-wide or region-wide continuing education program. (6) The
  projects which the applicant proposes to carry out under the grant.* Each
  proposal must include the following: (a) description of current research projects
  being conducted in the specified research area, (b) a schedule of anticipated
  expenses for establishing and operating the Center of Excellence, (c) a plan for
  meeting the 50 percent nonfederal contribution toward the matching
  requirements, (d) a statement showing its aggregate expenditures from all other
  sources for aviation research in its 2 fiscal years preceding November 5, 1990,
  (e) all data sufficient for the evaluation team to determine the extent to which the
  applicant is able to satisfy the six selection criteria outlined. Each proposal must
  contain: 1. a completed Application for Federal Assistance (SF-424 Research
  and Related); 2. table of contents; 3. a technical statement addressing the
  problems inherent in the specific topic area(s) and probable solutions; 4. a
  summary of research results from FAA funding in the past five years; 5.
  biographical sketches of senior personnel and a list of their principal
  accomplishments and publications during the past five years; 6. proposed budget
  for the initial three years including the anticipated costs of managing a new
  Center of Excellence, and a management plan; 7. current and pending support on
  all research awards from all sources; 8. available facilities and major items of
  equipment to be available to conduct research, and that which is necessary to
  acquire. 9. letters of support from various industry representatives, state and
  local officials, etc. Other required forms are Disclosure of Lobbying Activities
  form SF-LLL and certification of Compliance with Civil Rights Act.
Preapplication Coordination:
  FAA may hold a public information meeting prior to submission of proposals.
  Questions may be submitted to the FAA Centers of Excellence Program
  Director, AAR-400, FAA Technical Center, Atlantic City International Airport,
  NJ 08405. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372,
  "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult
  the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or her State
  for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying
  for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Colleges and universities may apply after the FAA has published a Notice of
  Availability of Solicitation for a Center of Excellence in a specific research area
  on the Grants.gov website. Solicitation and application packages are available
  from the FAA Centers of Excellence Program Office, FAA Technical Center,
  Atlantic City International Airport, NJ 08405.
Award Procedure:
  Each Air Transportation Center of Excellence is awarded on behalf of the FAA
  Administrator. The FAA Centers of Excellence Program Director, issues
  solicitations, receives all proposals, convenes evaluation teams to evaluate
  eligible institutions for Centers of Excellence awards. Applicants should be
  prepared to host an onsite inspection of existing research facilities.
Deadlines:
  Contact the FAA Center of Excellence Program Office for applications and
  application deadlines. Deadlines will also be published in the Notice of
  Solicitation.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From the closing date for applications, the FAA requires at least 6 months for
  evaluation and selection procedures.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula. Matching Funds - The Federal share
  shall be 50 percent of the costs of establishing and operating the Center of
  Excellence and related research activities. Maintenance of Effort - Each
  recipient will maintain its aggregate expenditures from all other sources for
  establishing and operating the Center and related research activities at or above
  the average level of such expenditures in its 2 fiscal years preceding November
  1990.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The FAA intends to support a Center of Excellence in three year increments over
  a maximum of ten years. Each Center will undergo a reassessment every three
  years. Research is reviewed semi-annually. Budgets and research projects are
                                                                                    703
