  negotiated yearly. As a consequence of changing needs, or diminished               
  requirements, the agency reserves the right not to renew support for a Center of   
  Excellence at any time. Funds from program offices and additional

  appropriations may increase at any time providing the institution can              
  demonstrate matching funds.                                                        
Reports:                                                                             
  Technical Reporting Requirements per Attachment H of OMB Circular No. A-           
  110 and Attachment I to OMB Circular No. A-102. Financial reporting                
  requirements as per Attachment G of OMB Circular No. A-110 and Attachment          
  H of OMB Circular No. A-102. Semi-annual reports on matching Funds and             
  technical reports, as well as an annual review of the research completed and in    
  progress at each Center of Excellence. The annual review focuses on the            
  relevance, merit and direction of research efforts in the designated area, and     
  negotiation of projects and budget for the next year. A symposium is required      
  by the end of each 3-year period as part of close-out activities and serves to     
  highlight research results and discuss plans for the next 3-year phase. The        
  symposium helps satisfy legislative requirements to disseminate information.       
Audits:                                                                              
  Single Audit Act assigns responsibility to either the Department of Health and     
  Human Services or the Department of Defense for most institutions. The FAA         
  calls for an audit of each Center every 3 years as a part of close-out activities, 
  and reserves the right to conduct individual audits annually, and as needed,       
  within the constraints of applicable laws and regulations.                         
Records:                                                                             
  Technical and financial records must be retained for a minimum of 3 years (or      
  longer, depending on special situations) following termination of the Center of    
  Excellence.                                                                        
Account Identification:                                                              
  69-8108-0-7-402.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Grants) FY 07 12,000,000; FY 08 est $8,500,000; and FY 09 est not available.      
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  Program started in fiscal year 1992. Grant assistance is expected to be a          
  minimum of $500,000 per year for each Center, in addition to IDIQ contract         
  awards.                                                                            
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  (1) Program planning completed; (2) Agency Directive written and currently         
  under revision; (3) A Center was established in 2003 for Aircraft Noise and        
  Aviation Emissions Mitigation; (4) A Center was established in 2004 for            
  Advanced Materials Research; (5) A Center was established in 2004 for Airliner     
  Cabin Environment Research; and (6) The program currently reflects                 
  $300,000,000 in contract awards, grants, and matching funds.                       
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  OMB Circulars A-133, A-122, A110 and A-21, Regulations and Executive               
  Orders are referenced in Appendix 2 of the FAA Research Grants Order 9550.         
  When the FAA is soliciting for a Center of Excellence, a solicitation and          
  application package containing the appropriate forms and directions will be        
  available. A Notice of Solicitation Availability will be announced in Grants.gov.  
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Patricia Watts, Ph.D, FAA Centers for Excellence Program Director, AAR-400,        
  FAA Technical Center Office of Aviation Research, Atlantic City International      
  Airport, NJ 08405. Telephone: (609) 485-5043. Fax: (609) 485-9430.                 
  patricia.watts@.faa.gov.                                                           
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.coe.faa.gov.                                                            
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  None.                                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  Centers of Excellence in Computational Modeling of Aircraft Structures, Airport    
  Pavement Research, Operations Research, Airworthiness Assurance, General           
  Aviation, Aircraft Noise and Aviation Emissions Mitigation, Advanced               
  Materials, and Airliner Cabin Environment Research.                                
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Public Law 101-508 has established the following six selection criteria: (1) The   
  extent to which the needs of the State in which the applicant is located are       
  representative of needs of the region for improved air transportation services and 
  facilities; (2) The demonstrated research and extension resources available to the 
  applicant for carrying out this program; (3) The capability of the applicant to    
  provide leadership in making national and regional contributions to the solution   
  of both long-range and immediate air transportation problems; (4) The extent to    
  which the applicant has an established air transportation program; (5) The         
  demonstrated ability of the applicant to disseminate results of air transportation 
  research and educational programs through a State-wide or region-wide              
  continuing education program; and (6) The projects which the applicant             
  proposes to carry out under the grant. Public Law 101-508 mandates geographic      
  equity in location and funding of Centers of Excellence: therefore, geographic     
  location may become an additional selection factor during the evaluation           
  process.                                                                           


704                                                                            11-08

20.200 HIGHWAY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF
  TRANSPORTATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for
  Users (SAFETEA-LU), Public Law 109-59, 23 U.S.C. Section 101 et seq., as
  amended.
OBJECTIVES:
  To carry out the highway research and development program as authorized by
  SAFETEA-LU. To conduct research needed to maintain and grow our vital
  transportation infrastructure. SAFETEA-LU addresses the many challenges
  facing our transportation system today challenges such as improving safety,
  reducing traffic congestion, improving efficiency in freight movement,
  increasing intermodal connectivity, and protecting the environment as well as
  laying the groundwork for addressing future challenges. SAFETEA-LU
  promotes more efficient and effective Federal surface transportation programs by
  focusing on transportation issues of national significance, while giving State and
  local transportation decision makers more flexibility for solving transportation
  problems in their communities.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Varies by project. See individual project Request for Applications (RFAs) for
  details. (RFAs issued at www.Grants.gov.)
Applicant Eligibility:
  Varies by project. See individual project Request for Applications (RFAs) for
  details. (RFAs issued at www.Grants.gov.)
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  State (State DOTs) Local Sponsored Organization General Public.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Eligible activities and allowable costs will be determined in accordance with
  SAFETEA-LU and the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) cost
  principles applicable to the recipient/sub-recipient.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Varies by project. See individual project Request for Applications (RFAs) for
  details. (RFAs issued at www.Grants.gov). This program is excluded from
  coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Varies by project. See individual project Request for Applications (RFAs) for
  details. (RFAs issued at www.Grants.gov.) Generally, per directions contained in
  the RFAs, applicants submit applications online via www.Grants.gov by the due
  date specified in the RFA.
Award Procedure:
  Varies by project. See individual project Request for Applications (RFAs) for
  details. (RFAs issued at www.Grants.gov.) Generally, FHWA evaluates
  applications and selects awardee(s).
Deadlines:
  Varies by project. See individual project Request for Applications (RFAs) for
  details. (RFAs issued at www.Grants.gov.)
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Varies by project. See individual project Request for Applications (RFAs) for
  details. (RFAs issued at www.Grants.gov.) Generally 1 to 3 months after
  application submittal.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Varies by project. See individual project Request for Applications (RFAs) for
  details. (RFAs issued at www.Grants.gov.) Cost sharing requirements for
  individual projects, as required by SAFETEA-LU, will be designated in the
  RFA.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Varies by project. See individual project Request for Applications (RFAs) for
  details. (RFAs issued at www.Grants.gov.) Funds generally become available at
  the beginning of the fiscal year for which they are authorized, and are available
  until expended or as otherwise designated in SAFETEA-LU.
Reports:
  Varies by project. See individual project Request for Applications (RFAs) for
  details. (RFAs issued at www.Grants.gov.) Generally quarterly progress reports
  and annual budget reports are required.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, Audits of States,
  Local Governments and Nonprofit Organizations, nonfederal entities that expend
  financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal awards from all sources
  during the fiscal year must have a single or a program-specific audit conducted
  for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in
