  Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except   
  as noted in OMB Circular No. A-133.                                               
Records:                                                                            
  Project records and documents must be retained by the Recipient as specified in   
  2 CFR Part 15 (Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and                 
  Agreements With Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other            
  Nonprofit Organizations) or 49 CFR 18.42 as applicable.                           
Account Identification:                                                             
  69-8083-0-7-401.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  Obligations are reported under Federal-aid Highway program totals.                
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  Varies by project. See individual project Request for Applications (RFAs) for     
  details. (RFAs issued at www.Grants.gov.)                                         
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  The two landmark bills that brought surface transportation into the 21st century  
  the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 (ISTEA) and the      
  Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (TEA-21) shaped the highway        
  program to meet the Nation's changing transportation needs. SAFETEA-LU            
  builds on this firm foundation, supplying the funds and refining the              
  programmatic framework for investments needed to maintain and grow our vital      
  transportation infrastructure.                                                    
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  23 CFR, "Highways", 49 CFR, "Transportation", and 2 CFR, "Grants and              
  Agreements".                                                                      
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  State-level division offices of the FHWA (as listed in Appendix IV of the         
  Catalog)                                                                          
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Federal Highway Administration, Office of Acquisition Management (HAAM),          
  1200 New Jersey Avenue, S.E., Washington, DC 20590.                               
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  http://www.fhwa.dot.gov.                                                          
RELATED PROGRAMS:

                                                                                    
  20.205, Highway Planning and Construction.

                                                                                    
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

                                                                                    
  Varies by project. See individual project Request for Applications (RFAs) for

                                                                                    
  details. (RFAs issued at www.Grants.gov.)

                                                                                    
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

                                                                                    
  Varies by project. See individual project Request for Applications (RFAs) for

                                                                                    
  details. (RFAs issued at www.Grants.gov.)

                                                                                    
                                                                                    
20.205 HIGHWAY PLANNING AND CONSTRUCTION                                            
   (Federal-Aid Highway Program, Federal Lands Highway Program).                    
                                                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     
  FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF                                     
  TRANSPORTATION                                                                    
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                      
  Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for    
  Users (SAFETEA-LU), Public Law 109-59, 23 U.S.C. 101 et seq., as amended.         
OBJECTIVES:                                                                         
  Federal-aid Highway Program: To assist State transportation agencies in the       
  planning and development of an integrated, interconnected transportation system   
  important to interstate commerce and travel by constructing and rehabilitating    
  the National Highway System (NHS), including the Eisenhower Interstate            
  System; and for transportation improvements to most other public roads; to        
  provide aid for the repair of Federal-aid highways following disasters; to foster 
  safe highway design; to replace or rehabilitate deficient or obsolete bridges; and
  to provide for other special purposes. This program also provides for the         
  improvement of roads in Puerto Rico, Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands, American      
  Samoa, the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Alaska Highway. The Federal          
  Lands Highway Program (FLHP), as an adjunct to the Federal Aid Highway            
  Program, provides assistance to the Federal Land Management Agencies              
  (FLMAs) for Federally owned roads. It provides transportation engineering         
  services for planning, design, construction, and rehabilitation of the highways   
  and bridges providing access to federally owned lands. The Federal Lands          
  Highway organization also provides training, technology, deployment,              
  engineering services, and products to other customers.                            
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                
  Formula Grants; Project Grants.                                                   
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                          
  Federal-aid highway funds are generally apportioned by statutory formulas to the  
  States. They are generally restricted to roads open to the public and not         
  functionally classified as rural minor collectors or local. Exceptions to this    
  highway functional classification restriction include: planning and research      
  activities; bridge, bicycle and pedestrian, and safety improvements that may be   
  on any public road; transportation enhancement activities; the recreational trails
  program (see program 20.219); safe routes to school, nonmotorized                 
                                                                                    
                                                                               11-08
  transportation, the FLHP, and public transportation improvement. The FLHP is
  not a grant program. For highway projects, funds may be used forenvironmental
  studies, engineering and design services, right-of-way acquisition and relocation
  assistance, and construction for capital improvement projects classified as new
  construction, reconstruction, restoration, rehabilitation, and resurfacing, or for
  functional, geometric, or safety reasons. Funds may also be used for planning;
  research, development, and technology transfer; intelligent transportation
  systems projects; roadside beautification; wetland and natural habitat mitigation,
  traffic management and control improvements; improvements necessary to
  accommodate other transportation modes, development and establishment of
  transportation management systems; billboard removal; construction of bicycle
  facilities and pedestrian walkways; fringe and corridor parking; car pool and van
  pool projects; transportation enhancements such as scenic and historic highway
  improvements; and recreational trails. Funds generally cannot be used for
  routine highway operational activities, such as police patrols, mowing, snow
  plowing, or maintenance, unless it is preventative maintenance. Also, funds
  authorized for the NHS, Surface Transportation Program (STP), Congestion
  Mitigation and Air Quality (CMAQ) Improvement Program, Equity Bonus (BE)
  program, and some additional programs may be used for mass transportation
  improvements; CMAQ funds are limited to projects and programs in air quality,
  non-attainment and maintenance areas for ozone, carbon monoxide, and small
  particulate matter that reduce transportation related emissions. Eligibility criteria
  for the programs differ, so program guidance should be consulted. Projects in
  urban areas of 50,000 or more population must be based on a transportation
  planning process carried out by a Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO) in
  cooperation with the State and transit operators, and the projects must be
  included in metropolitan transportation plans and improvement programs.
  Projects in non-metropolitan areas of a State must be consistent with a statewide
  transportation plan. Projects in both metropolitan and non-metropolitan areas
  must also be included in a fiscally constrained Statewide Transportation
  Improvement Program (STIP) developed as part of the required statewide
  transportation planning process. The FHWA and the Federal Transit
  Administration (FTA) must approve the STIP jointly.
Applicant Eligibility:
  By law, the Federal-aid highway program is a federally assisted State program
  that requires each State to have a suitably equipped and organized transportation
  department. Therefore, most projects are administered by or through State
  transportation departments (State DOTs). Projects to be funded under the
  Federal-aid highway program are generally selected by State DOTs or MPOs, in
  cooperation with appropriate local officials, as specified in 23 U.S.C. and
  implementing regulations. Territorial highway projects are funded in the same
  manner as other Federal aid highway projects, with the territorial transportation
  agency functioning in a manner similar to a State transportation department.
  Most FLHP projects are administered by the FHWA Office of Federal Lands
  Highway and its Divisions or by the various FLMAs. Under the FLHP, projects
  in the Indian Reservation Road (IRR) Program are selected by Tribal
  governments and are approved by the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) and the
  Federal Highway Administration. Due to recent legislation, Tribal governments
  meeting certain requirements may now administer various IRR projects on
  behalf of the BIA and FHWA. The Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) and the
  National Park Service (NPS) select projects in the Refuge Road and Park Roads
  and Parkways programs, respectively. For the Forest Highway Program, the
  Forest Service, the States and the Federal Highway Administration jointly select
  projects.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  State transportation departments, and in some instances, Federal agencies, other
  State agencies, local agencies, and private, community-based organizations.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Eligible activities and allowable costs will be determined in accordance with
  Title 23 and the OMB cost principles applicable to the recipient/sub-recipient.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review. An environmental impact assessment
  is required for most projects under this program, although the level of review
  varies with the project. Projects under the FLHP have similar requirements;
  however, an interested applicant would need to contact the designated FLMA or
  the local FLH Division for more information.
Application Procedure:
  In general, projects/programs proposed for funding must be included in a fiscally
  constrained STIP, submitted by the State DOT, and approved jointly by the
  FHWA and the FTA. In addition, the State DOT may need to submit statements
  of work or plans, specifications, and estimates for certain proposed projects to
  the FHWA division office located in each State for approval. The FHWA has an
  agreement with each State that details the extent to which the State assumes the
  responsibilities of the FHWA for projects in that State. For projects on the
  Interstate System costing more than $1 million, FHWA oversight of design and
  construction is required. For projects that are on the National Highway System
                                                                                     705
