  but not on the Interstate System, the State may assume the responsibilities of the   
  FHWA for oversight of design and construction, unless the State or the FHWA          
  determines that such assumption is not appropriate. For projects that are not on     
  the National Highway System, the State shall assume the responsibilities of the      
  FHWA for oversight of design and construction, unless the State determines that      
  such assumption is not appropriate. For the discretionary portion of public lands    
  highways, State DOTs submit desired projects to the FHWA division office             
  located in each State. Following the appropriate project selection process, a        
  Transportation Improvement Program (TIP) for the Park Roads and Parkways,            
  Forest Highway and Refuge Road programs is developed by one of the Federal           
  Lands Highway Division offices, and forwarded to the respective State for            
  inclusion in the appropriate MPO TIP and STIP. For the Indian Reservation            
  Roads program, a TIP is submitted to the FHWA Office of Federal Lands                
  Highway for approval and then forwarded to the respective State for inclusion in     
  the appropriate MPO TIP and STIP. Projects under the FLHP are subject to the         
  metropolitan and statewide planning requirements.                                    
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  The State DOTs generally decide which projects will be developed within              
  funding levels but the FHWA division office located in each State makes the          
  final decision on the eligibility of specific projects. There are several categories 
  where funding is allocated at the discretion of the Secretary of Transportation      
  and administered by the FHWA. Candidate projects for discretionary allocations       
  are usually solicited before the start of the Federal fiscal year (October 1) and    
  must be submitted by the State DOTs. FHWA approval of a project and                  
  execution of a project agreement constitute a commitment to pay the Federal          
  share of the project's allowable costs. Projects administered by the FHWA Office     
  of FLH or the FLMAs are subject to procurement processes identified in the           
  Federal Acquisition Regulations. Project awards are subject the availability of      
  funds.                                                                               
Deadlines:                                                                             
  There are no deadlines for applications for projects using apportioned funds.        
  For discretionary project allocations, applications are usually considered late in   
  the fiscal year before the year for which the funds are available. Allocations to    
  specific projects are generally made early in the fiscal year. Contact Federal       
  agency for deadline date(s). All allocations are made through the State DOT,         
  which is advised of schedules for submission of candidates.                          
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  From 1 day to 5 months.                                                              
Appeals:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                
Renewals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                                
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  Most Federal-aid highway funds are distributed by statutory formula. Eligibility     
  requirements for most programs are also determined by legislative criteria. Some     
  categories, including part of the bridge and Interstate Maintenance funds, are       
  distributed on a discretionary basis. The normal maximum Federal share is 90         
  percent for the EIS projects, and 80 percent for most other projects. The Federal    
  share for some programs may be increased in the case of States with large areas      
  of Federal lands. Some projects, including territorial highway projects, FLHP        
  projects, certain safety improvements, and emergency relief projects require no      
  matching of Federal funds.                                                           
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Federal-aid highway funds generally become available at the beginning of the         
  fiscal year for which they are authorized and must be obligated within 3 years       
  after the close of that fiscal year. However, some categories of funds are           
  available until expended.                                                            
Reports:                                                                               
  Except for projects that a state has oversight responsibility for, the FHWA          
  division office in each State monitors and reviews State projects and programs       
  during highway project location, design and construction. After the project is       
  completed State maintenance of the project is reviewed periodically. Certain         
  non-construction activities, such as transportation planning, require periodic       
  progress reports. Similar procedures apply to the FLMAs and FLHP projects            
  with the FHWA Office of FLH providing the mandatory stewardship and                  
  oversight. A value engineering analysis or other cost-reduction analysis is

  required for each project on the Federal-aid system with an estimated total cost     
  of $25,000,000 or more, a bridge project with an estimated total cost of

  $20,000,000 or more; and any other project determined to be appropriate.             
  Annual financial plans are required for projects with an estimated total cost of     
  $100,000,000 or more. In addition, a project management plan must be                 
  submitted for projects with an estimated total cost of $500,000,000 or more.         
Audits:                                                                                
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June           
  27, 2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,         
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in          
  Federal awards from all sources during their fiscal year must have a single or a     
  program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend      
  less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit            
  requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.                   


706                                                                              11-08

Records:
  Project records and documents must be retained by the State or other
  governmental recipients/ subrecipients as specified in 49 CFR Part 18 or by non-
  profit recipients/subrecipients as specified in 49 CFR Part 19. For the Federal
  Lands Highway Program, the Federal Lands Highway Divisions maintain the
  project records.
Account Identification:
  69-8083-0-7-401.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $34,154,000; FY 08 est. $40,068,000; and FY 09 est.
  $37,849,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  From $100,000 to $3,505,000,000. Average $700,000,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  The Federal-aid Highway Program has made significant contributions to the
  safer operation of the nation's highways, to the better intermodal connectivity of
  roads to other forms of transportation, and to the improvement of pavement and
  bridge conditions throughout the country, while helping to safeguard
  environmental conditions. It has provided funding for a wide range of
  alternatives to traditional highway construction projects to better serve
  transportation needs. It has developed and advanced critical new technologies,
  such as Intelligent Transportation Systems, and shared them with the States. The
  FLHP works to create the best transportation system in balance with the values
  of the Federal and tribal lands. The mission of the program is to improve
  transportation access to and within Federal and tribal lands and provide
  technical services to the highway community.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  23 CFR, "Highways" and 49 CFR, "Transportation", and 2 CFR, Grants and
  Agreements. http://www.fhwa.gov.
Regional or Local Office:
  State-level division offices of the Federal Highway Administration (as listed in
  Appendix IV of the Catalog) or State transportation agencies.
Headquarters Office:
  For Forest Highways, Indian Reservation Roads, Refuge Roads, and Park Roads
  and Parkways, contact the Associate Administrator for Federal Lands Highway,
  Federal Highway Administration, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, Room E61-202,
  S.E., Washington, DC 20590-0001. Telephone: (202) 366-9494. For all others,
  contact the Director, Office of Program Administration, Federal Highway
  Administration, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, S.E., Washington, DC 20590-0001.
  Telephone: (202) 366-0494.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.fhwa.dot.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  20.215, Highway Training and Education; 20.219, Recreational Trails Program;
  20.500, Federal Transit_Capital Investment Grants; 20.505, Federal
  Transit_Metropolitan Planning Grants; 20.507, Federal Transit_Formula Grants;
  20.509, Formula Grants for Other Than Urbanized Areas; 20.600, State and
  Community Highway Safety; 23.003, Appalachian Development Highway
  System; 23.008, Appalachian Local Access Roads.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  In fiscal year 2005, almost $8 billion was obligated for projects to relieve
  congestion and improve safety on the National Highway System. Over $443
  million were obligated for Forest Highways, Public Lands Highways, Indian
  Reservation Roads, Refuge Roads, and Park Roads and Parkways in fiscal year
  2007.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  To be eligible, most projects must be located on public roads that are not
  functionally classified as local. The major exceptions are the Highway Bridge
  Replacement and Rehabilitation Program, which provides assistance for bridges
  on and off the Federal-Aid highways; highway safety activities; bicycle and
  pedestrian projects, transportation enhancement activities, the recreational trails
  program, and planning, research, development, and technology transfer.
  Proposed projects meeting these and other planning, design, environmental,
  safety, etc., requirements can be approved on the basis of State and local
  priorities within the limit of the funds apportioned or allocated to each State.
20.215 HIGHWAY TRAINING AND EDUCATION
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL HIGHWAY INSTITUTE, FEDERAL HIGHWAY
  ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for
  Users (SAFETEA-LU), Public Law 109-59, 23 U.S.C. Section 101 et seq., as
  amended.
OBJECTIVES:
  National Highway Institute (NHI) Training Program: To develop and
  administer, in cooperation with those in the highway community, educational,
  training, and technical assistance programs for the Federal Highway
  Administration, State and local highway agency employees, as well as the
