  private sector and members of the international organizations. Dwight David         
  Eisenhower Transportation Fellowship Program (DDETFP): To attract qualified         
  students to the field of transportation education and research, and advance         
  transportation workforce development. Garrett A. Morgan Technology and              
  Transportation Education Program (GAMTTEP): To improve the preparation of           
  students, particularly women and minorities, in science, technology, engineering,   
  and mathematics through curriculum development and other transportation-            
  related activities.                                                                 
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants (Fellowships); Training; Project Grants (Cooperative                 
  Agreements).                                                                        
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  States may use funds not to exceed one half of 1 percent of the amount              
  apportioned to each State under Section 104(b)(3) for the surface transportation    
  program for training their employees or employees of local transportation           
  agencies. Such expenditures may not exceed 80 percent of the total cost of          
  tuition and direct education expenses (excluding salaries) in connection with the   
                                                                                      
  education and training activities. Courses and study programs may be obtained

                                                                                      
  from universities, other government agencies, the private sector, and/or the

                                                                                      
  National Highway Institute.

                                                                                      
Applicant Eligibility:

                                                                                      
  NHI Training Program: Employees of State and local transportation agencies.

                                                                                      
  DDETFP: Some restrictions apply. Undergraduate (juniors and seniors at

                                                                                      
  Minority Institutes of Higher Education (MIHE)) and graduate students

                                                                                      
  matriculating full-time at a U.S. university or college in a transportation-related

                                                                                      
  discipline. GAMTTEP: Local educational agencies and State educational

                                                                                      
  agencies, which may enter into a partnership agreement with institutions of

                                                                                      
  higher education, businesses, or other entities.

                                                                                      
Beneficiary Eligibility:

                                                                                      
  None.

                                                                                      
Credentials/Documentation:

  None.                                                                               
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                      
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Dwight David Eisenhower Transportation Fellowship Program (DDETFP):                 
  Students may apply to the Program Manager, Universities and Grants Programs         
  of the National Highway Institute (NHI) to compete for three award categories;      
  annually for the Eisenhower Graduate, Grants for Research Fellowships, and          
  Eisenhower Intern Fellowships. The remaining Eisenhower Fellowships are             
  competed at participating MIHEs. These include the Historically Black Colleges      
                                                                                      
  and Universities (HBCUs) Hispanic Serving Institutions (HSIs), and Tribal

                                                                                      
  Colleges (TCs) and selected applications are forwarded to the Program Manager,

                                                                                      
  Universities and Grants Programs of the National Highway Institute (NHI) for

                                                                                      
  final selection. A new fellowship category, the People with Disabilities (PWD)

                                                                                      
  Eisenhower Fellowship (PWDEF) is currently competed at Gallaudet University,

  Washington, DC, and the selected application is forwarded to the Program

  Manager, Universities and Grants Programs of the National Highway Institute         
  (NHI) for final selection. Garrett A. Morgan Technology and Transportation

                                                                                      
  Education Program (GAMTTEP): Vendors may apply through Grants.Gov

  annually. The application process has not yet been finalized.

                                                                                      
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Awards are made annually for the academic year for the Dwight David

                                                                                      
  Eisenhower Transportation Fellowship Program by the Chief, Partnership for

                                                                                      
  Workforce Development and the Program Manager, Universities and Grants              
  Programs of the National Highway Institute (NHI) for all categories. Awards for     
  the Garrett A. Morgan Technology and Transportation Education Program               
  (GAMTTEP) will be made on the basis of competitive review by the Director,          
  National Highway Institute and the Program Manager, Universities and Grants         
  Programs of the National Highway Institute (NHI).                                   
Deadlines:                                                                            
  NHI Training Program: None. DDETFP Graduate Fellowships and Grants for              
  Research Fellowships: annually by mid-February; DDETFP HBCUs, HSIs, TCs,            
  PWDs: annually by April 1st. Grants for Research Fellowships and Eisenhower         
  Intern Fellowships: Open until filled. GAMTTEP: Varies, but usually March.          
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  NHI Training Program: None. DDETFP: 3 months (applicants                            
  acceptance/rejection period).                                                       
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  NHI Training Program: None. Dwight David Eisenhower Transportation                  
  Fellowship Program: as applicable.                                                  
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  None.

                                                                                      
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

                                                                                      
  DDETFP on-site assignments, 6 to 12 months with extension upon approval

                                                                                      
  from the Program Manager, Universities and Grants Programs of the National          
  Highway Institute (NHI); Masters degree awards, up to 2 years, not to exceed 3      
  years, in duration; and PhD Awards, up to 3 years-not to exceed 5 years in          


                                                                                11-08 
  duration; and Bachelors degree, 1 year.
Reports:
  DDETFP: Final output/product required upon completion of fellowship.
Audits:
  1997-1998 audit.
Records:
  Participating agencies must keep records of expenditures/accomplishments as
  applicable.
Account Identification:
  69-8083-0-7-401.
Obligations:
  Obligations are reported under Federal-aid Highway program totals.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Not applicable.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  None.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  NHI Training Program: 23 CFR, "Highways." DDETFP: The first guidelines for
  the DDETFP were issued in August 1992. National guidelines are reissued
  annually in the program announcement by the National Highway Institute.
Regional or Local Office:
  State-level (division) offices of the Federal Highway Administration as listed in
  Appendix IV of the Catalog.
Headquarters Office:
  Chief, Partnership for Workforce Development, Federal Highway
  Administration, 4600 North Fairfax Drive, Suite 800, Arlington, Virginia
  22203-1553. Telephone: (703) 235-0500. Garrett A. Morgan Technology and
  Transportation Education Program (GAMTTEP): Program Manager, University
  and Grants Program, National Highway Institute, Federal Highway
  Administration, 4600 North Fairfax Drive, Suite 800, Arlington, VA 22203-
  1553. Telephone: (703) 235-0538.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.nhi.fhwa.dot.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  DDETFP: Graduate Fellowships, Grants for Research Fellowships (GRF), Intern
  Fellowships, Historically Black Colleges and University Fellowships, Hispanic
  Serving Institutions Fellowships, Tribal College Fellowships, People with
  Disabilities Fellowships, and FHWA program-related fellowships.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Courses conducted fill major agency needs as defined by high priority areas, and
  are presented within time, staff, and budget constraints. DDETFP fellowships
  are awarded on competition on the basis of demonstrated merit, including
  pursuit of transportation related careers, academic credentials, academic
  recommendations, andstudy proposal.
20.218 NATIONAL MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY
   (MCSAP)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FEDERAL MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY ADMINISTRATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Surface Transportation Assistance Act of 1982, Sections 401-408, Public Law
  97-424; Motor Carrier Safety Act of 1991, Public Law 102-240; 49 U.S.C. App.
  2301-2307; Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century, Public Law 105-
  178.
OBJECTIVES:
  To reduce the number and severity of accidents and hazardous material incidents
  involving commercial motor vehicles by substantially increasing the level and
  effectiveness of enforcement activity and the likelihood that safety defects,
  driver deficiencies, and unsafe carrier practices will be detected and corrected.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Assistance to States for the implementation of programs for the adoption and
  uniform enforcement of safety rules, regulations and standards compatible with
  the Federal Motor Carrier safety regulations and Federal hazardous materials
  regulations for both interstate and intrastate motor carriers and drivers.
Applicant Eligibility:
  A qualified State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the
  Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam, or
  the Commonwealth of the Northern Marianas (a State).
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  General public.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Certification by the State that it meets the conditions for grant approval.
  Submission of a State Plan addressing the commercial motor carrier and
  highway hazardous materials safety within the State. Cost will be determined in
                                                                                  707
