  accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments.                
Preapplication Coordination:                                                            
  Scheduled regional pre-planning conferences. This program is excluded from            
  coverage under E.O. 12372.                                                            
Application Procedure:                                                                  
  File with FMCSA Division Office an FMCSA Form MCSAP-1, which includes                 
  a certification of eligibility, and the State Commercial Vehicle Safety Plan. This    
  program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-110.                       
Award Procedure:                                                                        
  The amount of the basic MCSAP grant to a qualifying State will be determined          
  by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration based on the availability of       
  funds, the eligibility of a State, and the formula set in 49 CFR 350. State will be   
  required to sign a grant agreement.                                                   
Deadlines:                                                                              
  Application for a grant must be filed with the FMCSA Division Office by               
  August 1 of each year.                                                                
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                     
  From 30 to 60 days.                                                                   
Appeals:

  State will be notified in writing of failure to submit a satisfactory State Plan.     
  State will have 30 days to modify and resubmit the plan.

Renewals:                                                                               
  Application for a grant must be made annually.                                        
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                      
  The MCSAP formula is described in 49 CFR 350.323 and is based on the most             
  current approved statistics available. Most funds will be allocated each year         
  among the States according to a formula based on four equally weighted (25            
  percent) factors: (1) road miles (all highways) as defined by the FHWA: (2) All       
  vehicle miles traveled as defined by the FHWA; (3) Population - annual census         
  estimates as issued by the U. S. Census Bureau; and (4) special fuel                  
  consumption (net after reciprocity adjustment) as defined by the FHWA. The            
  Federal share shall not exceed 80 percent of the approved total project amount.       
  The State must maintain the average level of expenditure of the State and its         
  political subdivisions (not including amounts of the Government or State              
  matching funds) for commercial motor vehicle safety programs, for enforcement         
  of commercial motor vehicle size and weight limitations, drug interdiction, and       
  State traffic safety laws and regulations for the 3 full fiscal years beginning after 
  October 1 of the year 5 years prior to the beginning of each Government fiscal        
  year . The State's share is at least 20 percent. The FMCSA shall, upon request,       
  waive the requirement for matching funds to be provided by the Virgin Islands,        
  American Samoa, Guam, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Marianas.                   
  Additional funds are allocated under the provisions of the Safe, Accountable,         
  Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users.                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                  
  Grants are available for up to 1 year. Obligations to a State will remain available   
  for expenditure for the fiscal year in which they were obligated and the next full    
  fiscal year.                                                                          
Reports:                                                                                
  A quarterly Activity Report is to be filed with the FMCSA Division Office.            
Audits:                                                                                 
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, Audits of States,        
  Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations," nonfederal entities that            
  expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have a         
  single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities       
  that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal       
  audit requirements for that year, except as noted in OMB Circular No. A-133.          
Records:                                                                                
  Records of all program activities covered in the State's Safety Plan and statistics   
  pertaining to commercial motor vehicle accidents. Such records must be kept for       
  3 years following the year of funding.                                                
Account Identification:                                                                 
  69-8048-0-7-401.                                                                      
Obligations:                                                                            
  FY 07 $197,000,000; FY 08 est $202,000,000; FY 09 est not reported.                   
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                              
  Not less than 0.44 percent or more than 4.94 percent of available funds for basic     
  program grants.                                                                       
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                
  In fiscal year 2005, the program supported approximately 10,000 full and part-        
  time State personnel nationwide who performed approximately 3 million                 
  inspections, resulting in increased uniformity in the enforcement of motor            
  vehicle safety regulations throughout the United States and the promotion of          
  commercial vehicle safety. Training was provided for State enforcement                
  personnel through the delivery of commercial vehicle safety courses reaching          
  over 13,000 State personnel nationwide. The program also supported national           
  commercial vehicle safety activities related to inspection process improvements,      
  data collection and analysis, judicial outreach, new entrant safety audits and        
  drug interdiction.                                                                    
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                
  Regulations, Guidelines, and Literature: 49 CFR 1.48. 49 CFR 386-399,                 


708                                                                               11-08

  Federal Motor Carrier Safety regulations; 49 CFR 100-180, Hazardous Materials
  Regulations, Government Printing Office, $14-$27 per volume.
Regional or Local Office:
  State-level office of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, as listed in
  Appendix IV of the Catalog.
Headquarters Office:
  Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, State Programs, MC-ESS, 400
  Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC, 20590. Telephone: (202) 366-9579.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.fmcsa.dot.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Roadside driver and vehicle inspections.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The applicant must meet the statutory and administrative requirements contained
  in 49 CFR 350. The State Plan must provide for an effective commercial vehicle
  safety program.
20.219 RECREATIONAL TRAILS PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF
  TRANSPORTATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for
  Users (SAFETEA-LU), Public Law 109-59, 23 U.S.C. 104, 206.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide funds to the States to develop and maintain recreational trails and
  trail-related facilities for both nonmotorized and motorized recreational trail
  uses.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants; Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds from this program may be used for: (1) Maintenance and restoration of
  existing trails; (2) development and rehabilitation of trailside and trailhead
  facilities and trail linkages; (3) purchase and lease of trail construction and
  maintenance equipment; (4) construction of new trails (with restrictions for new
  trails on Federal lands); (5) acquisition of easements or property for trails or trail
  corridors; (6) assessment of trail conditions for accessibility and maintenance;
  (7) development and dissemination of publications and operation of educational
  programs to promote safety and environmental protection (as those objectives
  relate to one or more of the use of recreational trails, supporting non-law
  enforcement trail safety and trail use monitoring patrol programs, and providing
  trail-related training), (limited to 5 percent of a State's funds); and(8) State
  administrative costs related to this program (limited to 7 percent of a State's
  funds). Funds may not be used for: property condemnation; constructing new
  trails for motorized use on National Forest or Bureau of Land Management lands
  unless the project is consistent with resource management plans; or facilitating
  motorized access on otherwise non motorized trails. The USDOT encourages
  States to enter into contracts and cooperative agreements with qualified youth
  conservation or service corps to perform construction and maintenance of
  recreational trails under this program.
Applicant Eligibility:
  The Governor of each State must designate the State agency or agencies
  responsible for administering this program. The State must have a State
  recreational trail advisory committee that represents both motorized and
  nonmotorized recreational trail users, which shall meet not less than once per
  fiscal year. The State agency may accept project proposals from private
  organizations, or from municipal, county, State, or Federal government entities,
  and other government entities. The projects must satisfy one or more of the
  permissible uses.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  The State agency designated by the Governor.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Allowable costs will be determined in accordance with applicable cost principles
  listed in 49 CFR Part 18.22 for the kind of organization receiving the grant or
  subgrant.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Some States require preapplication submittals. Trail and trail-related projects
  must be planned and developed under the laws, policies, and administrative
  procedures within each State, and be identified in, or further a specific goal of, a
  recreational trail plan, or a statewide comprehensive outdoor recreation plan
  required by the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965 (16 U.S.C. 460l
  4 et seq.), that is in effect. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O.
  12372.
Application Procedure:
  The States must submit project proposals to the FHWA division office located in
  each State for approval. The State may submit individual projects or consolidate
  similar projects for the purposes of program approval. FHWA approval
