  constitutes a commitment to pay the Federal share of the project's cost. The          
  State's projects also must be included in State transportation improvement            
  programs and applicable metropolitan transportation improvement programs.             
Award Procedure:                                                                        
  The State agency or agencies designated by the Governors decide which projects        
  will be developed within funding levels, but the FHWA division office located in      
  each State makes the final decision on the eligibility of specific projects for       
  funding.                                                                              
Deadlines:                                                                              
  There are no Federal deadlines for funding requests. Each State establishes           
  deadlines for projects within that State.                                             
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                     
  From 5 days to 5 months.                                                              
Appeals:                                                                                
  None.                                                                                 
Renewals:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                 
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                      
  Funds are distributed to the States by statutory formula: 50 percent of the funds     
  are apportioned equally among all States, and 50 percent are apportioned in           
  proportion to the estimated amount of non highway recreational fuel use in each       
  State. In general, the Federal share is determined in accordance with 23 U.S.C.       
  120(b): generally 80%, with higher Federal shares in States with larger               
  proportions of Federal lands. A Federal agency project sponsor may provide            
  additional Federal funds, provided the total Federal share does not exceed 95         
  percent. Funds from any other Federal program may be used for the non Federal         
  match if the project also is eligible under the other program. Recreational Trails    
  Program funds may be used to match other Federal funds if the project also is         
  eligible under the other program. States also may allow a programmatic match: if

  some project sponsors in a State provide more match funds than required, other

  sponsors in the State may provide less. Some in-kind materials and services may

                                                                                        
  be credited toward the project match. States may allow some pre-approval              
  planning and environmental assessment costs toward the project match.                 
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

  Funds generally become available at the beginning of the fiscal year for which        
  they are authorized, and must be obligated within 3 years after the close of that     
  fiscal year.                                                                          
Reports:                                                                                
  Generally, the FHWA division office in each State monitors and reviews State          
  projects and programs.                                                                
Audits:                                                                                 
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June           
  27, 2003), Audits of State, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,           
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in           
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that      
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 in a year in Federal         
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted      
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                                
Records:                                                                                
  Project records and documents must be retained by the State for 3 years               
  following the final submission for Federal payment in accordance with 49 CFR          
  18.41.                                                                                
Account Identification:                                                                 
  69-8083-0-7-401.                                                                      
Obligations:                                                                            
  (Grants) Obligations are reported under Federal-aid Highway program totals.           
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                              
  Apportionments to the States are based on statutory formula. All 50 States and        
  the District of Columbia are eligible to receive apportionments. For fiscal year      
  2007 funds ranged from $727,059 to $5,555,406; the average was $1,473,725             
  (however, some States rescinded funds). For fiscal year 2008 funds ranged from        
  $776,078 to $6,037,429, but were subject to rescissions resulting about an 11.5       
  percent decrease.                                                                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                
  States selected projects located on Federal, State, local, and private lands for all  
  kinds of recreational trail uses including projects such as: grooming snow trails,    
  maintaining trails, constructing nature trails, constructing urban multiple use       
  trails, developing rail-trails, repairing motorized and non motorized trails,         
  constructing and rehabilitating trail bridges, improving trail access for people      
  with disabilities, developing trailside and trailhead facilities, assessing trails for
  accessibility and maintenance, improving trail information and signs, and             
  providing trail safety patrols and trail-related training. Many projects use youth    
  conservation or service corps.                                                        
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                
  23 CFR, Highways and 49 CFR, Transportation. There are no regulations                 
  specifically for this program. Program guidance was completed on April 1,             
  1999; and is posted at                                                                
  http://www.fhwa.dot.gov/environment/rectrails/guidance.htm along with                 
  program updates.                                                                      
Regional or Local Office:                                                               


                                                                                   11-08
  State-level offices of the Federal Highway Administration (as listed in Appendix
  IV of the Catalog) or the State agency designated by the Governor to administer
  this program.
Headquarters Office:
  Christopher B. Douwes, Office of Planning and Environment (HEPN-50),
  Federal Highway Administration, 1200 New Jersey Ave S.E., Washington DC
  20590. Telephone: (202) 366-5013. Fax: 202-366-3409. E-mail:
  christopher.douwes@dot.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.fhwa.dot.gov/environment/rectrails.html.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  20.205, Highway Planning and Construction.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Trail projects to develop and maintain recreational trails and trail-related
  facilities for both non motorized and motorized recreational trail uses. Examples
  include maintenance and construction of trails for hiking, bicycling, in-line
  skating, equestrian use, cross-country skiing, snowmobiling, off-road
  motorcycling, all-terrain vehicle riding, four-wheel driving, or using other off-
  road motorized vehicles; development and rehabilitation of trailside and
  trailhead facilities; operation of educational projects and programs to promote
  safety and environmental protection related to recreational trails; State
  administrative costs related to this program. Many projects use youth
  conservation or service corps. See specific project examples at: Award winning
  projects: http://www.americantrails.org/awards/CRTawards.html Project
  database: http://www.funoutdoors.info/rtphome.html.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  To be eligible, projects must be selected on the basis of State priorities within
  the limit of the funds apportioned to each State.
20.223 TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE FINANCE
AND INNOVATION ACT (TIFIA) PROGRAM
   (TIFIA Credit Program)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATI0N, DEPARTMENT OF
  TRANSPORTATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  23 U.S.C. 601-609; 49 CFR 80.
OBJECTIVES:
  The TIFIA program's purpose is to finance projects of national or regional
  significance by filling market gaps and leveraging substantial non-Federal and
  private co-investment. TIFIA credit assistance is intended to facilitate the
  financing of projects that would otherwise have been significantly delayed
  because of funding limitations or difficulties accessing the capital markets.
  Through TIFIA, the DOT provides Federal credit assistance to eligible highway,
  transit, rail, and intermodal freight projects, including access to seaports.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Loans; Guaranteed/Insured Loans.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Highway, transit, rail, freight facilities, and certain port projects may receive
  credit assistance through the TIFIA program. The TIFIA statute requires all
  projects receiving TIFIA assistance to comply with 23 U.S.C. (for highway
  projects) and chapter 53 of 49 U.S.C. (for transit projects), as applicable. In
  addition, all projects receiving TIFIA assistance must comply with generally
  applicable Federal laws and regulations, including title VI of the Civil Rights
  Act of 1964, the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, and the Uniform
  Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Public or private entities seeking to finance, design, construct, own, or operate
  an eligible surface transportation project may apply for TIFIA assistance.
  Examples of such entities include state departments of transportation; local
  governments; transit agencies; special authorities; special districts; railroad
  companies; and private firms or consortia that may include companies
  specializing in engineering, construction, materials, and/or the operation of
  transportation facilities.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Public or private entities seeking to finance, design, construct, own, or operate
  an eligible surface transportation project. Examples include state departments of
  transportation; local governments; transit agencies; special authorities; special
  districts; railroad companies; and private firms or consortia that may include
  companies specializing in engineering, construction, materials, and/or the
  operation of transportation facilities.
Credentials/Documentation:
  All applicants must demonstrate relevant experience, strong qualifications, a
  sound project approach, and a project that can demonstrate financial feasibility.
  Applicants also must meet various Federal standards for participation in a
  Federal credit program. For example, applicant may not be delinquent or in
  default on any Federal debts. Such requirements will be specified in the
  contractual documents between the DOT and each applicant.
                                                                                  709
