Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  To begin the application process, an applicant should submit to the DOT a Letter     
  of Interest, not to exceed 10 pages. A Letter of Interest template can be found at   
  http://www.tifia.fhwa.dot.gov/; it identifies the specific information that must be  
  provided. The DOT requests that applicants submit the Letter of Interest by          
  attaching it via email to TIFIACredit@dot.gov. This letter serves to familiarize

  the DOT with basic information relating to the project and the applicant. It also

                                                                                       
  permits the DOT and the applicant to ensure that the project meets the basic

  eligibility requirements for participation. This program is excluded from            
  coverage under E.O.12372.                                                            
Application Procedure:

  Upon receiving the DOTs notification that the project meets the basic eligibility    
  criteria, the applicant may submit an application. An application fee, currently     
  $30,000, must be submitted with the proposal. The application form is available      
  on the TIFIA web site at http://tifia.fhwa.dot.gov/.                                 
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  Final approval is granted by the Secretary of Transportation.                        
Deadlines:                                                                             
  None.                                                                                
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  After a complete application has been filed with all supporting documents,           
  processing time is approximately 60 days. The average time to execute a TIFIA        
  credit agreement from the date of Secretarial approval in FY 2006 was 4.3            
  months.                                                                              
Appeals:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                
Renewals:                                                                              
  Not applicable.

                                                                                       
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  The principal amount of the requested credit assistance must not exceed 33

                                                                                       
  percent of eligible project costs. Applicants should calculate and represent all     
  costs, including both eligible project costs and the credit assistance request, on a 
  cash (year-of-expenditure) basis.                                                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  The maximum maturity of all TIFIA credit instruments is 35 years after a

                                                                                       
  project's substantial completion.

                                                                                       
Reports:                                                                               
  Each credit agreement between the DOT and a borrower will specify the types of       
  on-going documentation required by the DOT and the frequency of such                 
  information requests. The credit agreement will also authorize the DOT to            
  commence increased monitoring and reporting,as may be necessary, to ensure           
  the continued credit quality of the project and minimize the government's risk.      
Audits:                                                                                
  See Index of Current Regulations, Federal Highway Administration.                    
Records:                                                                               
  Documentary evidence that may be requested for each project includes: audited        
  financial statements, updated budget and cash flow projections, audit reports,       
  sources and uses of funds, coverage ratios, project schedules, operating             
  statistics, and management updates (within no more than 180 days following the       
  recipient's fiscal year-end). In addition, the credit agreement obligates the        
  borrower to provide the DOT an annual update to the project's financial plan in      
  accordance with specified requirements. Each borrower will be required to give       
  notice to the DOT of material events, including litigation, which could affect       
  project development or the credit quality of the project.                            
Account Identification:                                                                
  69-4123-0-3-401; 69-4145-0-3-401; 69-4173-0-3-401.                                   
Obligations:                                                                           
  FY 07 $782,000,000; FY 08 est $2,391,000,000; FY 09 est not available.

                                                                                       
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

                                                                                       
  Historically, loans have ranged from $42 million to $917 million.

                                                                                       
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

  For FY 2007, as of March 31, 2007, one project loan in the amount of $516            
  million has been approved.                                                           
                                                                                       
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

  See TIFIA website at http://tifia.fhwa.dot.gov/ Legislation and Regulations,         
  Program Guidance and application Materials, and Background Reference.                
                                                                                       
Regional or Local Office:

  Not applicable.                                                                      
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Room 4310, 400 7th Street, S.W., Washington, DC 20590.                               
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://tifia.fhwa.dot.gov/ .                                                         
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  None.                                                                                
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  Examples include $917 million loan for the Central Texas Turnpike, $215              
  million loan for the Cooper River Bridge, $600 million loan guarantee for the        
  Washington DC Metro Capital Improvement Program, $159 million loan for the           
  Staten Island Ferries and Ferry Terminals, $439 million in two loans for the         
  Miami Intermodal Center.                                                             
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      


710                                                                              11-08

  The DOT has assigned specific weights to the selection criteria, as follows:
  National or Regional Significance (20 percent); Private Participation (20
  percent); Environment (20 percent); Project Acceleration (12.5 percent);
  Creditworthiness (12.5 percent); Use of Technology (5 percent); Consumption of
  Budget Authority (5 percent); Reduced Federal Grant Assistance (5 percent).
20.231 PERFORMANCE AND REGISTRATION
INFORMATION SYSTEMS MANAGEMENT
   (PRISM)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FEDERAL MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY ADMINISTRATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Congress authorized funding for The Performance and Registration Information
  Systems Management Program (PRISM) through the Motor Carrier Safety Act
  of 1991, Public Law 102-240; the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st
  Century of 1998, Public Law 105-178; and The Flexible, Efficient
  Transportation Equity Act of 2006, Public Law 109-59.
OBJECTIVES:
  To identify motor carriers responsible for the safety of commercial motor
  vehicles and monitor the safety fitness of those motor carriers by linking the
  vehicle registration process to safety performance monitoring and enforcement.
  Furthermore, causing the carrier to improve their safety performance through an
  improvement process, and where necessary, the application of registration
  sanctions.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Assistance to States for the implementation of the PRISM program, including
  training, outreach, and the development of system requirements linking motor
  carrier safety to the States commercial vehicle registration processes. This
  process allows States to capture the USDOT number of the motor carrier
  responsible for the safety of each vehicle at the vehicle level during registration.
Applicant Eligibility:
  A qualified State of the United States and the District of Columbia.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  States.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Submission of a State grant request and PRISM Implementation Plan addressing
  the program requirements outlined in the PRISM Implementation Guide.
Preapplication Coordination:
  At the State's request, FMCSA will conduct an initial briefing of the PRISM
  program for State officials. If a State decides to join PRISM, FMCSA requests
  they state their intentions to implement the program in a Letter of Intent to
  FMCSA. A two-day in-depth PRISM training session is then scheduled with the
  respective State to provide a general overview of the program and a thorough
  review of the grant requirements included in the PRISM Implementation Guide.
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or officials
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  File with the FMCSA Division Office a Letter of Intent, or a SF 424 Short Form.
   The State's PRISM Implementation Plan specifying how the State will meet the
  program requirements, time frames for completion, and associated costs. A
  sample Letter of Intent, together with a SF 424 Short and a sample State
  Implementation Plan are available on the grants.gov website
  http://www.grants.gov.
Award Procedure:
  The amount of the PRISM grant funding allocated to a qualifying State will be
  determined by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration based on the
  assessed needs of the State, the eligibility of the State, and the availability of
  funds. Once the State's PRISM Implementation Plan has been approved, the
  grant will be awarded and the State will be required to sign a grant agreement
  with FMCSA.
Deadlines:
  Not applicable.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 21 to 60 days.
Appeals:
  States will be notified via the Division Administrator of failure to submit a
  satisfactory PRISM Implementation Plan. States will then be requested to
  modify and resubmit the plan for approval.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula. PRISM grants are 100 percent federally
