  funded and require no State matching of funds.                                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Grants are available for up to two years. Obligations to a State will remain       
  available for expenditure during the two-year period specified in the grant        
  agreement and may be extended under special circumstances with FMCSA               
  approval.                                                                          
Reports:                                                                             
  Quarterly activity reports, including a summary of grant expenditures, are         
  required to be filed with the FMCSA Division Office.                               
Audits:                                                                              
  When a State has fully implemented the PRISM Program an Implementation             
  Review is scheduled to ensure that States meet the requirements of the PRISM       
  Program. Items needing modification are identified for corrective action with      
  progress monitored on a bi-annual basis.                                           
Records:                                                                             
  Records of all program activities covered in the State's PRISM Implementation      
  Plan and records pertaining to other supporting activities must be kept for 3      
  years following the year of funding.                                               
Account Identification:                                                              
  69-8048-0-7-401.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  FY 07 Grants $5,000,000; Contracts $1,000,000; FY 08 $5,000,000; and FY 09         
  $5,000,000.                                                                        
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  Financial assistance averages approximately $500,000 per State. Funding is         
  determined based upon individual State needs for full implementation of the        
  program.                                                                           
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  As Of July 1st 2008 46 States plus the District of Columbia have signed grant      
  agreements with the FMCSA to implement the PRISM program, including: AK,           
  AL, AR, AZ, CA, CO, CT, DE, FL, GA, HI, IA, ID, IL, IN, KS, KY, LA, MA,            
  ME, MN, MO, MS, MT, NH, NJ, NC, NE, NH, NY, OH, OK, OR, PA, RI, SC,                
  SD, TN, TX, UT, VA, VT, WA, WI, WV, and WY. On average it takes                    
  approximately 2 to 2 1/2 years for a State to acquire the necessary hardware and   
  software required to build, populate, and maintain the necessary DMV PRISM         
  data files to fully realize the potential of PRISM. Twenty nine States are         
  presently PRISM capable, with four states in the process of implementation and     
  nine states and DC committed to implement the program at their discretion          
  sometime in the future. PRISM states that actively exercise their authority to     
  deny, revoke, and or suspend a carriers registration include: AL, AR, CT, GA,      
  IA, IN, KY, ME, MN, MO, NC, NE, NH, NM, OH, OK, PA, RI, SC, SD, TN,                
  TX, UT, VT, WA, and WV.                                                            
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  The Implementation Guide, Procedures Manual, and System Specifications for         
  the PRISM program maybe obtained by contacting                                     
  PRISMTechnicalSupport@Volpe.dot.gov. Regulations, Guidelines, and                  
  Literature: 49 CFR 1.48. 49 CFR 386-399, Federal Motor Carrier Safety              
  regulations; 49 CFR 100-180, Hazardous Materials Regulations, Government           
  Printing Office, $14-$27 per volume.                                               
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  State Division Offices of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, as      
  listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.                                              
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Office of Enforcement and             
  Compliance, MC-ECE, 1200 New Jersey Ave, S.E., Washington, DC, 20590.              
  Telephone: (202) 366-9699.                                                         
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.fmcsa.dot.gov.                                                          
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  None.                                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  State improvements to data information and registration systems, bar-coding,       
  training and outreach activities.                                                  
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  The applicant must submit and receive formal approval of a State PRISM             
  Implementation Plan specifying how the State will meet the program                 
  requirements, time frames for completion, and associated costs of the program.     
                                                                                     
20.232 COMMERCIAL DRIVER LICENSE STATE                                               
                                                                                     
PROGRAMS                                                                             
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  FEDERAL MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY ADMINISTRATION,                                       
  DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION                                                       
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  49 U.S.C. 521, 31136, 31301 et seq., 31502; Section 103, Public Law 106-159,       
  113 Stat. 1753; Section 214 of Public Law 106-159, 113 Stat. 1766; 49 CFR          
  1.73. Section 31313 of Public Law 109-59.                                          
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To help or prevent truck and bus accidents, fatalities, and injuries by requiring  


                                                                                11-08
  drivers to have a single commercial motor vehicle license and by disqualifying
  drivers who operate commercial motor vehicles in an unsafe manner.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  A State may use grants only for expenses directly related to its compliance with
  section 31311 of the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation
  Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU - Public Law 109-59); except
  that a State that is making good faith efforts toward substantial compliance with
  the requirements of 31311 and 31313 of SAFETEA-LU may use grants to
  improve implementation of the State's commercial driver's license program,
  including expenses for computer hardware and software, publications, testing,
  personnel, training, fraud prevention, and quality control. The grant may not be
  used to rent, lease, or buy land or buildings.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Only those agencies in each State or the District of Columbia that is designated
  as the primary driver licensing agency responsible for the administration of the
  CDL program may apply.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  States may receive grant funds to comply with the requirements of section 31311
  of SAFETEA-LU or if making good faith efforts toward substantial compliance
  with the requirements of section 31311 and 31313 receive grant funds to
  improve implementation of the commercial driver's license program.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Certification by the State that it meets the conditions for grant approval. States
  must submit a self assessment of their CDL program and agree to maintain CDL
  program expenditures at a level at least equal to the average of the past two State
  fiscal years that ended prior to August 10, 2005. The State is also required to
  submit a self-assessment of its CDL program that addresses and supports the
  specific requests indicated in their application for a grant. Costs will be
  determined in accordance with OMB Circular A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Detailed application instructions and forms are available on Grants.gov.
  Applications must be submitted using Grants.gov after approval by the State's
  FMCSA Division Office.
Award Procedure:
  The amount of the CDL grant to a qualifying State will be determined by the
  CDL Division based on the documented needs of the State and the availability of
  funds. The Federal Register Notice will outline the current year's priorities. All
  proposals will be evaluated by a panel to determine which proposals have the
  greatest impact on the effectiveness of the CDL program in improving highway
  safety and reducing commercial motor vehicle related fatalities. States will be
  required to sign a grant agreement.
Deadlines:
  Grant applications must be approved by the FMCSA Division Administrator in
  the State and submitted via grants.gov by the date indicated in the Federal
  Register Notice.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  60 to 90 days.
Appeals:
  States will be notified of a denial of funding of their grant application. If denied
  funding, a State may revise and resubmit their application within 30 days.
  FMCSA will consider their revised application and may award a grant based on
  remaining funds at that time of consideration.
Renewals:
  A new grant application must be made whenever a new Federal Register Notice
  is published.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  CDL Program Improvement grants are 100 percent federally funded and require
  no State matching of funds.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grants are available for up to one year. Obligations to a state remain available
  until expended.
Reports:
  Project activity reports and financial status reports (SF-269) must be submitted
  quarterly to the FMCSA Division office.
Audits:
  In accordance with OMB Circular A-133, nonfederal entities that expend
  financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal awards must have a single or
  program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend
  less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit
  requirements for that year, except as noted in OMB Circular A-133.
Records:
  Records of all program activities covered in the grant proposal. Such records
  must be kept for three years following the year of funding.
Account Identification:
  69-8158-0-7-401.
Obligations:
                                                                                    711
