  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O.12372.                       
Application Procedure:

  Applicants must register with Grants.gov to apply for funding at:

  www.grants.gov/applicants/get _registered.jsp. Registration with grants.gov may

                                                                                      
  take two to five days before the system will allow access to the grant application  
  package. Applications should be submitted in accordance with the instructions       
  provided and must be submitted electronically to FMCSA through the                  
  Grants.gov website.

Award Procedure:                                                                      
  An evaluation panel will select award recipients based on an overall application    
  score outlined in the application package, the potential for improvement of         
  national Safety data collection and reporting rates, and the total funding          
  available.                                                                          
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Application deadlines are posted to Grants.gov and are included in the              
  application package. Grant awards are contingent upon Congressional approval        
  of Fiscal Year budgets.                                                             
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  If basic eligibility criteria are met and funds are available, discussion with      
  potential grantees continues until the project plan is mutually acceptable.         
Appeals:                                                                              
  Appeals will be considered upon demonstration that the proposal meets SaDIP         
  grant eligibility criteria and the State Safety Data Quality measures have been     
  addressed.                                                                          
Renewals:                                                                             
  Renewals or request for extensions to the grant period of performance can be        
  made through the FMCSA State Division Offices.                                      
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  The recipient may request monthly reimbursements of costs incurred in the           
  performance of the grant-funded project, as are allowable under the applicable      
  cost provisions under 49 CFR Part 18. The cost sharing is 20% State                 
  contribution and 80% Federal contribution.                                          
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  The initial grant period of performance is typically 18 months; grant program       
  extensions are allowable and funds are available until expended.                    
Reports:                                                                              
  The recipient shall submit quarterly reports on the 15th of the month following     
  the end of the quarter being reported.                                              
Audits:                                                                               
  The recipient is responsible for ensuring that independent audits are conducted     
  in accordance with the existing Federal auditing and reporting standards set        
  forth in OMB Circular A-133. The audit report must be submitted to the              
  FMCSA to support the indirect cost proposal.                                        
Records:                                                                              
  The recipient shall make available to FMCSA copies of all work developed in         
  performance with the grant, including but not limited to software and data. The     
  FMCSA shall have rights pursuant to 49 CFR Part 18 Section 18.34.                   
Account Identification:                                                               
  69-8055-0-7-401.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  FY 07 $3,000,000; FY 08 $3,000,000; and FY 09 $3,000,000.                           
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  Range $5,000 - $500,000. Average amount of award $250,000.                          
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  Improve the overall quality of CMV crash and inspection data.                       
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Section 4128 of the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity    
  Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU) established the SaDIP grant                    
  opportunity. The legislation provides discretionary funding for States to improve   
  the quality of crash and inspection data for large trucks and buses reported by     
  States to FMCSA, as described in 49 U.S.C. Section 31102. The funding is            
  codified in 49 U.S.C. Section 31104.                                                
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Refer to the FMCSA Field Office Roster at the FMCSA website for your                
  FMCSA State Division Office                                                         
  (http://www.fmcsa.dot.gov/about/contact/offices/displayfieldroster.asp)             
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Betsy Benkowski, State Safety Data Quality Program Manager; Office of               
  Analysis, Research and Technology-Analysis Division (MC-RRA); FMCSA                 
  1200 New Jersey Avenue, S.E., W68-324, Washington, DC 20590; Telephone:             
  (202) 366-5387.                                                                     
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  E-mail: betsy.benkowski@dot.gov.                                                    
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  See "Uses and Use Restrictions" above.                                              
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  The criteria for selecting proposals are defined in the evaluation criteria included
  with the full application package available on Grants.gov; criteria are based on    
  the defined goals and objectives included in, and the feasibility and cost

                                                                                 11-08
  effectiveness of, the proposed project plan.
20.235 COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE OPERATOR
TRAINING GRANTS
  (Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA), Department
  Of Transportation)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FEDERAL MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY ADMINISTRATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for
  Users (SAFETEA-LU), Public Law 109-59.
OBJECTIVES:
  To promote the safe operation of commercial motor vehicles (as defined in 49
  U.S.C. 31301) through the training of operators and future operators of such
  vehicles.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Discretionary).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Assistance to persons who train operators and future operators of commercial
  motor vehicles (as defined in 49 U.S.C. 31301)in the safe operation of such
  vehicles.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State governments, local governments, and accredited postsecondary educational
  institutions (public or private) such as colleges, universities, vocational-technical
  schools and truck driver training schools.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  General public.
Credentials/Documentation:
  State government agencies, local government agencies or accredited
  postsecondary educational institutions recognized by the U.S. Department of
  Education. The list of accredited postsecondary educational institutions is
  available on the U.S. Department of Education website at www.ed.gov.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  File application package (SF-424, SF-424A, SF-424B, and project plan) with
  FMCSA Division office in the State where the applicant is located or
  electronically through Grants.gov (www.grants.gov), including a detailed project
  proposal, following procedures in accordance with FMCSA guidance issued
  through a Federal Register notice.
Award Procedure:
  The amount of award to a qualified applicant will be at the discretion of FMCSA
  based upon a panel review of all applications, recommendations of the review
  panel, and funding availability. Successful applicants will be required to sign a
  grant agreement with FMCSA.
Deadlines:
  Applications must be filed with an FMCSA Division office or through
  Grants.gov in accordance with FMCSA guidance issued through a Federal
  Register notice.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  60-90 days.
Appeals:
  Applicants will be notified in writing by FMCSA if the application is not
  approved. There is no appeal process.
Renewals:
  Eligible applicants must submit a new grant application to receive additional
  funding.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The Federal share of the grant shall not exceed 80 percent of the approved
  expenditures in the project plan. A 20 percent matching share by the recipient is
  required.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grants are available for the fiscal year in which obligated plus the next full fiscal
  year. Amounts not expended by the end of this period will revert back to
  FMCSA for reallocation.
Reports:
  Quarterly activity reports are required to be filed with the FMCSA Division
  office in the State where the recipient is located. A program evaluation report is
  also required to be submitted no later than 90 days after completion of the grant
  period.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of revised OMB Circular A-133, Audits of
  States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations, nonfederal entities,
  including institutions of higher education, that expend $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from the Federal audit requirements for that year, except as
  noted in OMB Circular A-133.
                                                                                      713
