Records:                                                                              
  Records of all program activities, including financial and programmatic records,    
  statistical records and any other records, covered in the approved project plan     
  must be kept for a period of 3 years after the grant is closed.                     
Account Identification:                                                               
  69-8159-0-7-401.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  FY 07 $1,000,000; FY 08 est not available; FY 09 est not reported.                  
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  FY 05 $1,000,000 (single award.                                                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  New program; no data yet available.                                                 
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  49 CFR 1.48; 49 CFR 18; 49 CFR 19; 49 CFR 20; 49 CFR 386-399, Federal               
  Motor Carrier Safety Regulations; 49 CFR 100-180, Hazardous Materials               
  Regulations, available through Government Printing Office.                          
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  FMCSA Division office as listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.                      
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, State Programs Division, MC-           
  ESS, 400 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC, 20590. Telephone: 202-366-            
  9579.                                                                               
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.fmcsa.dot.gov .                                                          
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

                                                                                      
  Grant awarded to enhance the State of Florida's commercial motor vehicle

                                                                                      
  operator training program through community vocational education (FY 05).

                                                                                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

                                                                                      
  Applicant must submit an application including a detailed project plan

                                                                                      
  consistent with criteria identified by the FMCSA. The plan must provide for the     
  effective administration of a commercial motor vehicle operator training            
  program.                                                                            
                                                                                      
20.236 THERMAL IMAGING INSPECTION SYSTEM                                              
DEMONSTRATION PROJECT                                                                 
                                                                                      
      (TIIS Demonstration Project)                                                    
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  FEDERAL MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY ADMINISTRATION (FMCSA),                                
  DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION                                                        
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for      
  Users (SAFETEA-LU) Act of 2005, Title V, Subtitle E, Section 5513(a), Public        
  Law 109-59.                                                                         
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  The Secretary of Transportation shall carry out a demonstration project that uses   
  a thermal imaging inspection system (TIIS) that leverages state-of-the-art          
  thermal imagery technology, integrated with signature recognition software,         
  providing the capability to identify, in real time, faults and failures in tires,   
  brakes and bearings mounted on commercial motor vehicles.                           
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                            
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Funds under this project shall be used to employ a TIIS in a field environment,     
  along the Interstate, to further assess the system's ability to identify faults in  
  tires, brakes, and bearings mounted on commercial motor vehicles; to establish,     
  through statistical analysis, the probability of failure for each component; and to 
  develop and integrate a predictive tool into the TIIS, which identifies an          
  impending tire, brake, or bearing failure and provides the use a time frame in      
  which this failure may occur. This project shall be conducted at multiple sites     
  including the FMCSA's Roadside Test Lab located at an operational weigh             
  station on Interstate 81 in Eastern Tennessee. The project shall involve the        
  participation of the Tennessee Department of Safety.                                
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  The following entities are eligible to apply for funding under this project: Public 
  nonprofit institution/organizations, Federal agencies and laboratories, Profit      
  organizations, Private nonprofit institutions/organizations, and Other private      
  institutions/organizations. Institutions of higher education are eligible may       
  include public, private, or State colleges and universities. State and local        
  governments are not eligible to apply.                                              
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  State, Public Nonprofit Institution/Organization, Other Public                      
  Institution/organization, Profit Organization, Private Organization, Quasi-Public   
  Nonprofit Organization, Other Private Institution/organization, Education           
  Professional, Student/Trainee, Graduate Student, Scientists/Researcher,             
  Engineer/Architect, Builder/Contractor/Developer, Industrialist/Business Person.    
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            


714                                                                             11-08

  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. The Secretary may enter a cooperative agreement with a public or private
  organization including institutions of higher education that has the most
  responsive proposal to the objectives of this project. The applicant must submit
  an application form (SF-424, SF-424A, and SF-424B) and proposal no later than
  June 30, 2006 to the FMCSA Office of Research and Analysis, Technology
  Division. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applicants must submit an application form (SF-424, SF-424A, and SF-424B)
  via www.grants.gov no later than 30 days after the Federal Register Notice for
  this project is published. The estimated publishing date for the Federal Register
  notice is by the end of June, 2006. Applicants must register with
  www.grants.gov in order to submit grant applications. Applicants are strongly
  encouraged to register well before the application deadline since this one-time
  registration process can take several days to complete.
Award Procedure:
  A grant agreement will be awarded to the most responsive proposal within 60
  days after the Federal Register notice for this project is published. The
  estimated publishing date for the Federal Register notice is by the end of June,
  2006.
Deadlines:
  Proposals are due 30 days after the Federal Register notice for this project is
  published. The estimated publishing date for the Federal Register notice is by
  the end of June, 2006. Applicants must register with www.grants.gov in order to
  submit grant applications. Applicants are strongly encouraged to register well
  before the application deadline since this one-time registration process can take
  several days to complete.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  None.
Appeals:
  None .
Renewals:
  None .
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  As required by SAFETEA-LU, Section 5513(m), the Federal share of the total
  cost of activities carried out in accordance with Section 5513(a) shall be 80
  percent. The 20 percent match may be in the form of dedicated funding,
  equipment, or in-kind services for this project.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The funding for this project shall be made available to the recipient on a cost
  reimbursable basis. The funding for this project, once awarded, is available until
  fully expended. The period of performance for this project is 24 months from
  the date of award.
Reports:
  The recipient shall be required to submit monthly reports documenting project
  accomplishments, expenditures, performance problems encountered, and
  planned activities in the next reporting period.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  24, 1997), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations,
  nonfederal entities that receive financial assistance of $300,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or program-specific audit conducted for that
  year.
Records:
  The entity that receives funding under this program shall follow the Records
  requirements of OMB Circular A-110.
Account Identification:
  69-8048-0-7-401.
Obligations:
  FY 07 est not reported; FY 08 est not available; FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  A single award of $1,412,044 will be made for this project. This is a new project
  with no prior history. This is a discretionary grant program. FMCSA anticipates
  making one award to one recipient. Total available funding is $1,412,044.
  Incremental payments will be made at intervals corresponding with performance
  milestones to be agreed upon by the parties.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Expected accomplishments are the demonstration of a thermal imaging
  inspection system (TIIS) that leverages state-of-the-art thermal imagery
  technology, integrated with signature recognition software, providing the
  capability to identify, in real time, faults and failures in tires, brakes and
  bearings mounted on commercial motor vehicles.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  49 CFR Parts 18 and 19 OMB Circulars: A-102, A-110, A-87, A-21, A-133.
Regional or Local Office:
  None .
Headquarters Office:
  Jeff Loftus, Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Office of Research and
  Analysis, Technology Division (MC-RRT), Telephone: (202) 385-2363, Fax:
