  (202) 385-2422, jeff.loftus@dot.gov, 400 Virginia Avenue, S.W., Suite 600,         
  Washington, DC 20024. Office hours are from 9:30 AM to 6:00 PM, ET,                
  Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays.                                    
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  www.fmcsa.dot.gov.                                                                 
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  None.                                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  None .                                                                             
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Upon receipt, the proposals will be evaluated by FMCSA for potential funding.      
  Selection of a successful applicant will be made based upon the evaluation         
  criteria of: Past Performance, Technical and Management Approach, and Price.       
  Price proposals will be analyzed for reasonableness and completeness to include    
  the period of performance and tasks. This evaluation may include a comparison      
  of the applicant's proposed prices (including the required additional price        
  information) to those of other applicants and to prices paid under the same or     
  similar contracts. A price proposal found to be unrealistically low may reflect a  
  lack of understanding of requirements. The Government may use the price            
  realism analysis as part of its evaluation of technical and management approach    
  and/or its responsibility determination.                                           
                                                                                     
20.237 SAFETY DATA IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM                                               
                                                                                     
   (SADIP)                                                                           
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  FEDERAL MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY ADMINISTRATION (FMCSA)                                
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  49 U.S.C. 31102.                                                                   
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  The objectives are to fund State programs to improve the overall quality of        
  commercial motor vehicle (CMV) data, specifically to increase the timeliness,      
  efficiency, accuracy and completeness of processes and systems related to the      
  collection and analysis of truck and bus crash and inspection data.                
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants (Discretionary).                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Examples of uses for funding include: hire staff to manage data quality            
  improvement programs, revise outdated crash report forms, hire staff to code and   
  enter safety data, train law enforcement officers in collecting crash data, develop
  software to transfer data from the State repository SAFETYNET and purchase         
  software for field data collection and data transfer.                              
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Eligible applicants include State Departments of Public Safety, Departments of     
  Transportation, or State Law Enforcement Agencies in any of the fifty States and   
  the District of Columbia. The State agency must clearly articulate a goal that is  
  related to the quality of State CMV crash and inspection data. Project objectives  
  must be clearly articulated, time-limited, action-oriented, measurable and         
  achievable. Project plans must include performance measures for monitoring the     
  improvement in the quality of State-reported CMV safety data.                      
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Federal, State and local entities are the beneficiary.                             
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  None. This program is excluded From coverage under E.O. 12372.                     
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Applicants must register with Grants.gov to apply for funding at:                  
  www.grants.gov/applicants/get _registered.jsp. Registration with grants.gov may    
  take two to five days before the system will allow access to the grant application 
  package. Applications should be submitted in accordance with the instructions      
  provided and must be submitted electronically to FMCSA through the

  Grants.gov website.

                                                                                     
Award Procedure:

  An evaluation panel will select award recipients based on an overall application   
  score outlined in the application package, the potential for improvement of        
  national Safety data collection and reporting rates, and the total funding

  available.ator when an account has been established in DOT Delphi accounting       
  system for the grant funds. Notify the FMCSA Division Administrator (or a          
  designee) of the project code associated with the grant. Members of the            
  FMCSA, FHWA, and FAA accounting, legal, and acquisitions departments also          
  will play key roles in the grant management process.                               
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Application deadlines are posted to Grants.gov and are included in the             
  application package. Grant awards are contingent upon Congressional approval       
  of Fiscal Year budgets.                                                            
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  If basic eligibility criteria are met and funds are available, discussion with     
  potential grantees continues until the project plan is mutually acceptable.        


                                                                                11-08
Appeals:
  Appeals will be considered upon demonstration that the proposal meets SADIP
  grant eligibility criteria and the State Safety Data Quality measures have been
  addressed.
Renewals:
  Renewals or request for extensions to the grant period of performance can be
  made through the FMCSA State Division Offices.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The recipient may request monthly reimbursements of costs incurred in the
  performance of the grant-funded project, as are allowable under the applicable
  cost provisions under 49 CFR Part 18. The cost sharing is 20 percent State
  contribution and 80% Federal contribution.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The initial grant period of performance is typically 18 months; grant program
  extensions are allowable and funds are available until expended.
Reports:
  The recipient shall submit quarterly reports on the 15th of the month following
  the end of the quarter being reported.
Audits:
  The recipient is responsible for ensuring that independent audits are conducted
  in accordance with existing Federal auditing and reporting standards set forth in
  OMB Circular A-133. The audit report must be submitted to the FMCSA to
  support the indirect cost proposal.
Records:
  The recipient shall make available to FMCSA copies of all work developed in
  performance with the grant, including but not limited to software and data. The
  FMCSA shall have rights pursuant to 49 CFR Part 18 Section 18.34.
Account Identification:
  69-8055-0-7-401.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $3,000,000; FY 08 est $3,000,000; and FY 09 $3,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Range $5,000 - $500,000; Average award $250,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Improve the overall quality of CMV crash and inspection data.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Section 4128 of the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity
  Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU) established the SaDIP grant
  opportunity. The legislation provides discretionary funding for States to improve
  the quality of crash and inspection data for large trucks and buses reported by
  States to FMCSA, as described in 49 U.S.C. Section 31102. The funding is
  codified in 49 U.S.C. Section 31104.
Regional or Local Office:
  Refer to the FMCSA Field Office Roster at the FMCSA website for your
  FMCSA State Division Office
  (http://www.fmcsa.dot.gov/about/contact/offices/displayfieldroster.asp).
Headquarters Office:
  Betsy Benkowski, State Safety Data Quality Program Manager; Office of
  Analysis, Research and Technology -Analysis Division (MC-RRA); FMCSA,
  1200 New Jersey Avenue, S.E., W68-324, Washington, DC 20590; Telephone:
  (202) 366-5387.
Web Site Address:
  E-mail: betsy.benkowski@dot.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  See "Uses and Use Restrictions" above.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The criteria for selecting proposals are defined in the evaluation criteria included
  with the full application package available on Grants.gov; criteria are based on
  the defined goals and objectives included in, and the feasibility and cost
  effectiveness of, the proposed project plan.
20.238 COMMERCIAL DRIVERS LICENSE INFORMATION
SYSTEM
   Commercial Drivers License Information System (CDLIS)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FEDERAL MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY ADMINISTRATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  49 U.S.C. 521, 31136, 31301 et seq., 31502; Section 103, Public Law 106-159,
  113 Stat. 1753; Sec. 214 of Public Law 106-159, 113 Stat. 1766; 49 CFR 1.73.
  Section 31309 of Public Law 109-59.
OBJECTIVES:
  To modernization the Commercial Driver's License Information System
  (CDLIS). Following modernization CDLIS will: (1) comply with applicable
  Federal information technology security standards; (2) provide for the electronic
  exchange of all information including the posting of convictions; (3) contain self
  auditing features to ensure that data is being posted correctly and consistently by
                                                                                     715
