  the States; and (4) integrate the commercial driver's license and the medical       
  certificate.                                                                        
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  A State may use grants only for expenses directly related to modernizing its        
  CDLIS to be compatible with the modernized CDLIS under section 31309 of             
  title 49, United States Code. A grant to a State may not be for more than 80

  percent of the costs incurred by the State in a fiscal year in modernizing CDLIS    
  of the State to be compatible with the modernized CDLIS under section 31309

  of title 49, United States Code.                                                    
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  A qualified state and the District of Columbia. An organization representing

  agencies and officials of a State.                                                  
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  General Public.                                                                     
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Certification by the state that it meets the conditions for grant approval. States  
  will fund future efforts to modernize CDLIS. Costs will be determined in            
  accordance with OMB Circular A-87.                                                  
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  This program is excluded from coverage E.O. 12372.                                  
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Detailed application instructions and forms are available on Grants.gov.            
  Applications must be submitted using Grants.gov after pre application review by     
  the State's FMCSA Division Office.                                                  
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  The amount of the CDL Modernization grant to a qualifying state will be             
  determined by the State Programs CDL Division based on the availability of          
  funds and the eligibility of the State. The Grants.gov announcement will outline    
  the current year's priorities. All proposals will be evaluated by a panel to        
  determine which proposals have the greatest impact on the effectiveness of the      
  CDLIS Modernization program. States will be required to sign a grant                
  agreement.                                                                          
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Grant applications must be filed with the FMCSA Division Office by the date         
  stated on Grants.gov.                                                               
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  60 to 90 days.                                                                      
Appeals:                                                                              
  States will be notified in writing.                                                 
Renewals:                                                                             
  A new grant application must be made whenver a grant opportunity is published.      
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  A grant under this CFDA may not be for more than 80 percent of the costs            
  incurred by the State in a fiscal year in modernizing CDLIS.                        
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Grants are available for up to one year. Obligations to a state remain available    
  until expended.                                                                     
Reports:                                                                              
  Quarterly activity reports are to be filed iwth the FMCSA Division office.          
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with OMB Circular A-133, nonfederal entities that expend              
  financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal awards must have a single or    
  program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend     
  less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit           
  requirements for that year, except as noted in OMB Circular A-133.                  
Records:                                                                              
  Records of all program activities covered in the grant proposal. Such records       
  must be kept for three years following the year of funding.                         
Account Identification:                                                               
  69-8055-0-7-401.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  FY 07 $7,000,000; FY 08 $8,000,000 and FY 09 $8,000,000.                            
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  Not available at this time.                                                         
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  49 CFR 1.48; 49 CFR 386-399; 49 CFR 100-180.                                        
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  State-level office of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, as listed in 
  Appendix IV of the Catalog.                                                         
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, State Programs-CDL Division,           
  MC-ESL, 400 Seventh Street S.W., Washington DC 20590. Telephone: (202)              
  366-2964.                                                                           
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.fmcsa.gov.                                                               
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  20.217, Motor Carrier Safety; 20.218, National Motor Carrier Safety; 20.232,        
716                                                                             11-08

  Commercial Driver License State Programs.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Hardware and software upgrades.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Compliance with CDLIS Modernization plan. States must be in substantial
  compliance with the requirements of sections 31309 and 31311 of title 49 of the
  United States Code.
20.240 FUEL TAX EVASION-INTERGOVERNMENTAL
ENFORCEMENT EFFORT
   (Fuel Tax Evasion-Intergovernmental Enforcement Efforts)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF
  TRANSPORTATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for
  Users (SAFETEA-LU), Public Law 109-59, 23 U.S.C. Section 1101 (a)(21).
OBJECTIVES:
  To increase intergovernmental activities and enforcement efforts among public
  agencies to reduce Federal fuel tax evasion. Funds made available shall be used
  only to expand or enhance intergovernmental efforts to increase motor fuel tax
  enforcement and payments; to supplement motor fuel tax examinations and
  criminal investigations; and to increase research and training in the area of
  Federal fuel tax evasion.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Any funds administered under this program shall be used in accordance with the
  specifications in OMB Circular A-87, Cost Principles Applicable to State, local
  and Indian Tribal Governments.
Applicant Eligibility:
  States, the District of Columbia, U.S. Territories and possessions, other public
  agencies including an Indian tribe or pueblo, the republics of the Marshall
  Islands and Palau, and the Federated States of Micronesia.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  States, the District of Columbia, U.S. Territories and possessions, other public
  agencies including an Indian tribe or pueblo, the republics of the Marshall
  Islands and Palau, and the Federated States of Micronesia.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applicants must submit all proposals electronically through www.Grants.gov.
Award Procedure:
  Awards are made annually through fiscal year 2009.An interagency review
  group will be established to review all proposals after the application deadline.
  FHWA and IRS will jointly recommend and approve projects for Federal
  funding for fuel tax evasion intergovernmental enforcement efforts. States
  selected to receive funding will enter into negotiations with FHWA and be
  required to enter into a project agreement with FHWA.
Deadlines:
  Not available at this time.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  The approval/disapproval time will take approximately 2 months.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Projects will not be funded for a period of more than 2 years.
Reports:
  Annual reports will required for each project and will be outlined in the project
  agreement.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, Audits of State,
  Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,nonfederal entities that expend
  financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal awards, will have a single or
  a program specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that
  expend less than $500,000 in a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal
  audit requriemtns for that year, except as noted in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Participating agencies must keep records of expenditures/accomplishments as
  applicable.
Account Identification:
  69-8083-0-7-401.
Obligations:
