  or ultimate operation of incremental High Speed Passenger Rail Systems.           
Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  Any United States private business, educational institution located in the United 
  States, State or local government or public authority, or agency of the Federal   
  government is eligible for assistance relating to Next Generation High Speed      
  Passenger Rail Systems.                                                           
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                            
  No restrictions.                                                                  
Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  As specified in program solicitations and Federal Register Notices.               
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  The FRA will announce specific pre- application coordination activities for each  
  project area in the Federal Register. This program is excluded from coverage      
  under E.O. 12372.                                                                 
Application Procedure:                                                              
  As specified in NOTICES for specific project areas.                               
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  As specified in notices for specific project areas.                               
Deadlines:                                                                          
  As specified in notices for specific project areas.                               
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

  Four to 16 weeks after application.

Appeals:

                                                                                    
  To Administrator, Federal Railroad Administration.                                
Renewals:                                                                           
  Grants, cooperative agreements or contracts contemplated in this program are      
  predominantly project-oriented rather than on-going efforts and are therefore     
  non-renewable.                                                                    
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  Not applicable to technology development efforts.                                 
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  As specified in individual project NOTICES.                                       
Reports:                                                                            
  A final report detailing the work conducted and the progress accomplished will    
  be required for all projects.                                                     
Audits:                                                                             
  For projects assisting States, local governments, and nonprofit organizations in  
  accordance with OMB Circular No. A-133. For projects assisting private            
  businesses in accordance with 48 CFR Chapter I Subpart 31.2, Contracts with       
  Commercial organizations. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular       
  No. A-133 (Revised, June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and     
  Nonprofit Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of 
  $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific       
  audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than          
  $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements      
  for that year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.                             
Records:                                                                            
  In accordance with requirements of the specific project agreement.                
Account Identification:                                                             
  69-0722-0-1-401; 69-9973-0-7-401.                                                 
Obligations:                                                                        
  FY 07 $2,529,100; FY 08 est $960,000; and FY 09 est not available.                
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  $100,000 to $7,000,000. Average: $250,000.                                        
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  This program was initiated in fiscal year 1995, and focuses on technology         
  development in (a) High Speed, High Acceleration Fossil-Fueled Locomotives;       
  (b) Advanced Communications Based Train Control Systems; (c) Highway-Rail         
  Grade Crossing Sensor and Warning Systems; and (d) Low Cost, Innovative           
  Technologies. Federal Register Notice was issued on September 8, 1994,            
  requesting applications for a demonstration of High Speed Positive Train          
  Control (HSPTC) on one or more corridors designated under Section 1010 of         
  ISTEA. Awards totaling $20 million have been made in fiscal 1995 through          
  fiscal year 2001 to the State of Michigan. Awards totaling $28 million have       
  been made to the State of Illinois. Four Advanced Locomotive Awards totaling      
  $12.5 million of Federal funding have been made to the State of New York with     
  50/50 matching provided by the New York State Department of Transportation.       
  A cooperative agreement has produced a 150 mph turbine-powered locomotive         
  with Federal funding totaling $13 million to Bombardier Transit, Inc. with 50/50  
  matching by Bombardier. Awards totaling over $20 million have been made to        
  various contractors and States for technology to mitigate grade crossing hazards. 
   In FY 2003, FRA awarded a $4 million cooperative agreement to the Florida        
  DOT for a demonstration of Diesel Multiple Unit (DMU) Passenger Rail Cars,        
  which fully comply with all current federal standards.                            
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  DOT Appropriations Act of Fiscal Year 2002, Public Law 107-87. Prospective        
  applications should note that the Department of Transportation and Related        
  Agencies Appropriation Acts and associated congressional report language may      
  have designated applications of program funding. Broad Agency                     
  Announcement BAA-2001-02, Funds Availability for Research Projects and            
  Technology Advancements under the NGHSR Program, June 2001.                       


                                                                               11-08
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Office of Railroad Development, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE, Washington,
  DC 20590.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.fra.dot.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Examples are described in the paragraph on program accomplishments.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  For technology development activities: (1) Overall scientific and/or technical
  merit; (2) Degree to which the overall technical effort will advance U.S. High
  Speed Passenger Rail Technology; (3) Technical qualifications and
  demonstrated experience of key personnel proposed to perform technical efforts;
  (4) Administrative qualifications and demonstrated experience of the proposing
  organization(s); (5) Reasonableness and realism of proposed costs and fee (if
  any); and, (6) The degree to which Federal funds are leveraged by private,
  nonfederal, and/or Federal funds from sources other than this program.
20.313 RAILROAD RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FEDERAL RAILROAD ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF
  TRANSPORTATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Law 103-44, Section 216.
OBJECTIVES:
  To foster long-range enhancement of the Federal Railroad Administration's
  program of research in support of rail safety by developing cooperative research
  relationships between the Administration and university organizations.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Projects must show a relationship towards advancing railroad safety. Applicants
  must demonstrate 5 years of railroad research activity.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Applicants must be major academic research institutions with backgrounds in
  the rail transportation arena. A minimum of 5 years of railroad or railroad
  related research experience is required.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  No restrictions.
Credentials/Documentation:
  As specified in program solicitations and Federal Register Notices.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The FRA will announce specific pre- application coordination activities for each
  project area in the Federal Register. This program is excluded from coverage
  under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  As specified periodically in the Federal Register, eligible applicants must submit
  a Program Application that consists of a University Profile and Proposed
  Research Projects. The applications are subject to the requirements of OMB
  Circular A-110. Applications may be obtained from the Office of Research and
  Development, Mail Stop 20, 1120 Vermont Avenue N.W., Washington, DC
  20590. Telephone: (202) 493-6384. Fax: 202-493-1313. Email:
  Judy.Pharris@FRA.DOT.gov.
Award Procedure:
  As specified in Federal Register notices, applicants must first demonstrate
  satisfactory background and experience to the Office of Research and
  Development, Federal Railroad Administration. Second, proposed research
  projects are reviewed to determine those which most closely match the
  Administration's research objectives. Those applicants with one or more
  projects satisfying the second step criteria will be rank ordered based on
  qualifications and probability of success. From this rank ordering, the
  Administration established a group of selected universities as pre-qualified to
  perform solicited or approved research projects. Applicants within this group
  will be invited to enter into cooperative agreements.
Deadlines:
  As specified in Federal Register notices.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Four to 16 weeks after application.
Appeals:
  To Administrator, Federal Railroad Administration.
Renewals:
  Grants contemplated in this program are predominantly project-oriented rather
  than on-going efforts and are therefore non-renewable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  There are no formula or matching requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Not applicable.
                                                                                   719
