Reports:                                                                             
  A final report detailing the work conducted and the progress accomplished will     
  be required. Presentations at an annual workshop are expected.                     
Audits:                                                                              
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June         
  27, 2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,       
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in        
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that   
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal         
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted   
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.                                                         
Records:                                                                             
  In accordance with requirements of the specific project agreement.                 
Account Identification:                                                              
  69-0745-0-1-401.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Grants) FY 07 $1,097,262; FY 08 est $1,000,000; and FY 09 est. not available.     
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  $50,000 to $250,000. Average: $100,000.                                            
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  New program, not applicable.                                                       
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Regional or Local Office:

                                                                                     
  Not applicable.

                                                                                     
Headquarters Office:

                                                                                     
  Dr. Magdy El-Sibaie, Office of Research and Development, Federal Railroad

                                                                                     
  Administration, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, S.E., Washington DC 20590.

                                                                                     
Web Site Address:

                                                                                     
  http://www.fra.dot.gov.

RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  None.                                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  New program, not applicable.                                                       
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  In descending order of relative importance: (1) Overall scientific and/technical   
  merit; (2) Degree to which it may improve upon or advance railroad safety; (3)     
  Likelihood for its near term adoption and implementation of possible               
  recommendations; (4) Degree to which the proposed project fits into the            
  Administration's overall research objectives: (5) Reasonableness and realism of    
  the proposed cost, and the availability of funds (to include due consideration for 
  proposed cost-sharing by the applicant).                                           
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
20.314 RAILROAD DEVELOPMENT                                                          
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  FEDERAL RAILROAD ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF                                     
  TRANSPORTATION                                                                     
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for     
  Users (SAFETEA-LU), Public Law 109-59.                                             
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To provide financial assistance for: planning and developing railroad corridors    
  (including environmental studies), purchasing rail equipment, rail line relocation 
  and improvement projects, construction projects that improve rail lines, enhance   
  service, and add capacity to the national rail system, capital construction,       
  rehabilitation and improvements benefiting train operations.                       
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                           
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  (1) The financial assistance may fund, but is not limited to, rehabilitation or    
  construction of railroads, including planning activities and associated studies.   
  (2) Specific descriptions are based on the language in the authorizing or          
  appropriating legislation and any associated regulations.                          
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  State governments, Regional and local governments, For-profit organizations,       
  such as railroads.                                                                 
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  State governments Regional and local governments For-profit organizations,         
  such as railroads.                                                                 
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  US Department of Transportation Federal Railroad Administration Assurances         
  and Certification forms                                                            
  http://www.fra.dot.gov/downloads/admin/assurancesandcertifications.pdf.            
  Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, and Other Responsibility            
  Matters-Primary Covered Transactions o Certification Regarding Debarment,          
  Suspension, Ineligibility and Voluntary Exclusion-Lower Tier Covered               
  Transactions o Certification Regarding Drug-Free Workplace Requirements o          
                                                                                     
  Certification Regarding Lobbying o Assurances-Non-Construction Programs, SF

                                                                                     
  424E o Certificate of Indirect Costs Assurances - Construction Programs SF-

                                                                                     
  424D.



720                                                                            11-08

Preapplication Coordination:
  None.The applicant must submit the following information to the FRA through
  www.grants.gov: Application for Federal Assistance SF-424 Department of
  Transportation Federal Railroad Administration Assurances and Certification
  forms http://www.fra.dot.gov/downloads/admin/assurancesandcertifications.pdf:
  Certification Regarding Debarment, suspension, and other Responsibility
  Matters Primary Covered Transactions. o Certification Regarding Debarment,
  Suspension, Ineligibility and Voluntary Exclusion Lower Tier Covered
  Transactions. Certification Regarding Drug-Free Workplace Requirements. o
  Certification Regarding Lobbying. o Assurances Non-Construction Programs,
  SF 424E Certificate of Indirect Costs. Assurances - Construction Programs SF-
  424D Statement of Work Budget. This program is excluded from coverage under
  E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  The applicant must submit the following information to the FRA through
  www.grants.gov: Application for Federal Assistance SF-424 Department of
  Transportation Federal Railroad Administration Assurances and Certification
  forms http://www.fra.dot.gov/downloads/admin/assurancesandcertifications.pdf:
  Certification Regarding Debarment, suspension, and other Responsibility
  Matters Primary Covered Transactions. o Certification Regarding Debarment,
  Suspension, Ineligibility and Voluntary Exclusion Lower Tier Covered
  Transactions. Certification Regarding Drug-Free Workplace Requirements. o
  Certification Regarding Lobbying. o Assurances Non-Construction Programs,
  SF 424E Certificate of Indirect Costs. Assurances - Construction Programs SF-
  424D Statement of Work Budget.
Award Procedure:
  Review the application package to ensure that all required documents are
  complete and signed by the appropriate person. Review the statement of work
  (SOW) and budget to ensure the appropriation language requirements are met.
  Review SOW for technical issues and budget for appropriate costs, including
  compliance with the National Environmental Policy Act and related laws and
  orders. Competitive comparison o applications to determine relative satisfaction
  of published selection criteria might occur for some grants. following selection
  (if applicable) and after the application package is acceptable to both parties, a
  grant agreement is drafted, reviewed, and signed upon agreement by both
  parties.
Deadlines:
  On a case-by-case basis as posted for a project on www.grants.gov.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  None.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Formula and matching Requirements: These programs have no statutory
  formula. Some grantees will be required to provide a match from non-program
  funds toward the grant budget. This program has MOE requirements; see
  funding agency for further details.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  No restriction on period of time the assistance normally is available. Assistance
  is usually awarded upon request for reimbursement.
Reports:
  The grantee shall submit the following reports: Quarterly progress reports giving
  an account of significant progress (findings, events, trends, etc.) made during the
  reporting period, and a description of any technical and/or cost problems
  encountered or anticipated that will affect completion of the grant. Quarterly
  financial status reports using SF 269 or 269A, Financial Status Report..
  Quarterly Federal Cash Transactions reports using SF 272, Federal Cash
  Transaction Report. Final report giving details of the results and benefits of the
  Grantee's improvement efforts.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  24, 1997), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that receive financial assistance of $300,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $300,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  The grantee must keep satisfactory records with regard to the use of the property,
  equipment, and supplies and submit these records to FRA upon request.
Account Identification:
  21-0730-0-1-401; 21-8083-0-1-401; 21-0715-0-1-401.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $3,500,000; FY 08 est $66,100,000; and FY 09 est $0.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Grants within this program range from $50,000 to over $700,000,000. The
  average financial assistance varies considerably.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
