  This program has assisted the rehabilitation and construction of railroad projects  
  and associate studies. Specific grants are provided for in legislation, usually one 
  application is submitted for each grant. Starting in FY 2008, there might be        
  competition for some grants.                                                        
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  These two Acts and associated regulations provide the primary guidance for this     
  program: The National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 as amended (42               
  U.S.C. 4321 et seq.), and related laws Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient       
  Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (Public Law 109-59).                  
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  If necessary to contact a regional office, the contact information will be in a     
  grant agreement.                                                                    
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Alice Alexander, Office of Railroad Development, 1200 New Jersey Ave S.E.,          
  Washington, DC 20005. Telephone: (202) 493-6363. Fax: (202) 493-6330.               
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  Http://www.fra.dot.gov.                                                             
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Alaska Railroad Access to Joint Tanana Training Complex; Tacoma Rail                
  Mountain Division Track Improvements.                                               
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  The work and cost estimates are reasonable and are within the scope of the          
  appropriation language. For the grants competed, the selection criteria will be     
  specified in the final regulations, and shall include, but shall not be limited to, 
  prioritizing criteria defined in relevant authorizing and appropriations law, and   
  criteria intended to ensure the timely completion of funding projects.              
                                                                                      
20.315 NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER                                                    
                                                                                      
CORPORATION GRANTS                                                                    
   (Amtrak Grants)                                                                    
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  FEDERAL RAILROAD ADMINISTRATION                                                     
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  49 U.S.C. 24104(a); Annual appropriation laws (for 2008: The Department of          
  Transportation Act, 2008, included as Title I in Division K (the Transportation,    
  Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act,             
  2008) of the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2008, Public Law No. 110-           
  161).                                                                               
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To provide financial assistance to support the operation of and capital             
  investment in intercity passenger rail service in the United States.                
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  As specified in individual Grant Opportunity announcements, assistance may be       
  used to fund operating expenses, capital investment activities, and/or payment of   
  debt service obligations.                                                           
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  As directed by authorizing and appropriating statute, assistance is available only  
  to the National Railroad Passenger Corporation.                                     
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  As directed by authorizing and appropriating statute, assistance is available only  
  to the National Railroad Passenger Corporation.                                     
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  The applicant must submit all documentation required under the terms of the         
  applicable appropriations law.                                                      
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  Preliminary review of project descriptions and budgets with applicant, including    
  assurance of compliance with the National Environmental Policy Act and related      
  laws and orders. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.           
Application Procedure:                                                                
  The applicant must submit the following information: Application for Federal        
  Assistance SF-424; Detail project descriptions and budgets; and all information     
  required under the terms of the applicable appropriations law.                      
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Review of the application package to ensure that all required documents are         
  complete, accurate, and satisfy all provisions of applicable law. Review of         
  project budgets and description to ensure the appropriation language                
  requirements are met. Review of project descriptions for technical issues and       
  consistency with applicable policies, and budgets for appropriateness of cost       
  estimates. After the application package is acceptable to both parties, a grant     
  agreement is drafted, reviewed, and signed by both parties.                         
Deadlines:                                                                            
  None, unless otherwise specified in the governing appropriation law.                
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Timing of Approval/Disapproval typically ranges from between 2-6 weeks.             


                                                                                 11-08
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Length and time phasing of assistance is dependant on the specific appropriating
  and/or authorizing law governing the grant opportunity.
Reports:
  The grantee is required to submit the following reports: Monthly progress reports
  giving an account of significant progress (findings, events, trends, etc.) made
  during the reporting period, and a description of any technical and/or cost
  problems encountered or anticipated that will affect completion of the grant.
  Monthly financial status reports using SF 269 or 269A, Financial Status Report.
  Monthly Federal Cash Transactions reports using SF 272, Federal Cash
  Transaction Report. Monthly detailed reports regarding performance against
  project budgets and schedules, and forecasts of future performance. Final report
  giving details of the results and benefits of the Grantee's improvement efforts.
Audits:
  Since the eligible applicant has been and will continue to be subject to audits
  conducted by its own independent auditors, the Department of Transportation's
  Inspector General, and the General Accounting Office, the FRA does not
  requiring the applicant to prepare an additional specific audit for the purposes of
  the grant agreement. However, the applicant must agree to obtain such audits as
  may be reasonably required by FRA and to allow the Secretary of
  Transportation, the FRA and their authorized representatives to conduct such
  audits as they deem appropriate with respect to the financial assistance provided
  to the Grantee under the agreement. Closeout does not alter the applicant's audit
  responsibilities. Audit costs for program administration and management are
  allowable under the agreement to the extent authorized by OMB Circular A-87,
  Revised; OMB Circular A-21, Revised; or OMB Circular A-122, Revised.
Records:
  During the course of its activities under a grant agreement and for three years
  thereafter, the applicant must agree to retain intact and to provide any data,
  documents, reports, records, contracts, and supporting materials relating to its
  performance under the agreement as FRA may require. Reporting and record-
  keeping requirements are set forth in 49 C.F.R. Part 19 for private non-profit and
  for-profit Grantees. Closeout does not alter these requirements.
Account Identification:
  For operating assistance grants: 69-0121-0-1-401. For capital investment grants:
  69-0125-0-1-401.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $1,293,633,000; FY 08 $1,325,000,000; and FY 09 $0.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Awards under this program range from $10,000,000 to $850,000,000, and
  depend on the amount and breakdown of assistance made available through
  specific appropriations laws.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  The Amtrak Grants program provides financial assistance to support operation
  of rail passenger service in 46 states and the District of Columbia. Financial
  assistance for capital investment provided through this program allows for the
  recapitalization and improvement of passenger rolling stock, railway
  infrastructure, and related business systems. The program also provides
  incentives to improve the cost effectiveness of intercity passenger rail operations
  and reduce the need for federal operating subsidies.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  None.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Office of Railroad Development, Passenger Programs Division (RDV-13),
  Federal Railroad Administration, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, S.E., Washington,
  DC 20590.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.fra.dot.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Funding provided through this program has supported Amtrak's ongoing
  operation of intercity passenger rail service in the U.S. Funding for capital
  investments has been used to support the majority of Amtrak's annual capital
  investment program, including projects such as fire and life safety improvements
  to the rail tunnels into New York Pennsylvania Station, the return of Northeast
  Corridor rail infrastructure to a state of good repair through the replacement or
  rehabilitation of Amtrak-owned infrastructure, and the acquisition, repair, and/or
  rebuilding of various types of passenger rolling stock.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Proposals for projects must support the stated strategic goals of the applicant
  organization, align with the priorities identified in authorization or appropriation
                                                                                    721
