  statutes, and of the Secretary of Transportation, and be accompanied by detailed     
  scope and budget documentation. Quantitative or qualitative justification of         
  project prioritization must be provided.                                             
                                                                                       
                                                                                       
20.316 RAILROAD REHABILITATION AND                                                     
IMPROVEMENT FINANCING PROGRAM                                                          
      (RRIF Loan Program)                                                              
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  FEDERAL RAILROAD ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF                                       
  TRANSPORTATION                                                                       
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act of 1976 (45 U.S.C. 821, et         
  seq.)                                                                                
                                                                                       
OBJECTIVES:

                                                                                       
  The RRIF program provides direct loans and loan guarantees to State and local

                                                                                       
  governments, government sponsored authorities, government sponsored

  corporations, railroads, and joint ventures that include at least one railroad.      
                                                                                       
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:

                                                                                       
  Direct Loans.

                                                                                       
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

                                                                                       
  Funds provided by direct loans or loan guarantees under the RRIF Program can

                                                                                       
  be used to: (1) Acquire, improve, or rehabilitate intermodal or rail freight or

                                                                                       
  passenger equipment or facilities, including track, components of track, bridges,

                                                                                       
  yards, buildings and shops (2) Refinance outstanding debt incurred for purposes

                                                                                       
  described in the previous paragraph (3) Develop or establish new intermodal or

                                                                                       
  railroad facilities The maximum loan amount will be based on the remaining

                                                                                       
  available funds under the Program's authorization. The repayment period for

                                                                                       
  direct loans and loan guarantees is up to 25 years. The interest rate on direct

                                                                                       
  loans will be equal to the rate on Treasury securities of a similar term.

                                                                                       
Applicant Eligibility:

                                                                                       
  Eligible applicants include State and local governments, government-sponsored

                                                                                       
  authorities, government-sponsored corporations, railroads, and joint ventures

                                                                                       
  that include at least one railroad.

Beneficiary Eligibility:

  The beneficiaries of the Program will be the State or local government               
  organizations, railroad, or joint ventures that include a railroad that will receive 
  the financial assistance to permit them to complete the specified projects.

Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  None.                                                                                
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  A pre-application meeting may be held if requested by a potential applicant.         
  Procedures for requesting such a meeting are available on the FRA website.           
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, Intergovernmental            
  Review of Federal Programs. An applicant should consult the office or official       
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information   
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the  
  State has selected the program for review.                                           
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Complete and submit application form available on the FRA website.                   
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  FRA will evaluate application and advise applicant of approval or disapproval.       
Deadlines:                                                                             
  There are no application submission deadline dates.                                  
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Application will be approved or disapproved within 90 days after a complete          
  application is deemed to have been submitted.                                        
Appeals:                                                                               
  There is no appeal process.                                                          
Renewals:                                                                              
  Disapproved applicants may reapply at any time.                                      
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  This program has no statutory formula. This program has no matching                  
  requirements.                                                                        
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  As a part of the application package, the borrower provides a projected timetable    
  for the completion of the project. The funding will be made available as             
  progress payments to pay directly or reimburse the Borrower for prior payment        
  of allowable costs incurred in connection with the project.                          
Reports:                                                                               
  Yearly audited and certified profit and loss statement, balance sheet and            
  statement of cash flows must be submitted for the life of the financial assistance.  
   During the course of the project, monthly progress reports of work completed        
  and actual expenditures compared to the budget.                                      
Audits:                                                                                
  Audits of project expenditures will be conducted upon completion.                    
Records:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                
Account Identification:                                                                


722                                                                              11-08

  69-0700-0-1-401.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $183,500,000; FY 08 est $123,000,000; and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Range: Fiscal 2007-$48.0 million to $59.0 million. Average: Fiscal 2007-
  $53.5 million.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Since 2002 the program has approved almost $800 million in direct loans. In the
  current fiscal year, nine applications have been approved for a total of $248
  million.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Railroad Rehabilitation and Improvement Financing Program, 49 CFR 260.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Office of Freight Programs, Federal Railroad Administration, Department of
  Transportation, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, S.E., Washington DC 20590
  Telephone: (202) 493-6381. Fax: (202) 493-6330.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.fra.dot.gov/.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Funded projects include track rehabilitation, equipment acquisition, line
  acquisition, new construction, and debt refinancing.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Initially the criteria are based on the relevance to the programs' objectives and
  uses. The program provides direct loans and loan guarantees to State and local
  governments, government-sponsored authorities and corporations, railroads, and
  joint ventures that include at least one railroad. Eligible projects include: (1)
  refinancing outstanding debt that was incurred for eligible purposes, (2)
  developing or establishing new intermodal or railroad facilities, or (3)
  acquisition, improvement or rehabilitation of intermodal or rail equipment or
  facilities (including tracks, components of tracks, bridges, yards, buildings and
  shops.
20.317 CAPITAL ASSISTANCE TO STATES - INTERCITY
PASSENGER RAIL SERVICE
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FEDERAL RAILROAD ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF
  TRANSPORTATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Authorized by appropriation for FY 2008 in Division K of Public Law 110-161:
  Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies
  Appropriations Act, 2008. Continuation of this program would be subject to its
  inclusion, if any, in subsequent- annual appropriation legislation and/or
  authorizations .
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide financial assistance to fund capital improvements (and related
  planning activities) necessary to support improved or new intercity passenger
  rail service.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The financial assistance may fund capital improvements and directly-related
  planning activities necessary to achieve tangible improvements to, or institute
  new, intercity passenger rail service. Examples of capital improvements include
  (but are not strictly limited to) the purchase of passenger rolling stock, the
  improvement of existing track to allow for higher maximum speeds, the addition
  or lengthening of passing tracks to increase capacity, the improvement of
  interlockings to increase capacity and reliability, and the improvement of
  signaling systems to increase capacity and maximum speeds, and improve
  safety. (With respect to planning activities, only proposed planning projects
  which lead to (1) a programmatic Environmental Impact Statement for the
  purpose of route selection, and/or (2) a corridor transportation plan prepared in
  accordance with the methodologies set forth in FRA's publication, entitled
  "Railroad Corridor Transportation Plans: A Guidance Manual," (see below for
  citation), will be considered for possible funding, subject to published selection
  criteria.) Proposed projects must be specifically included in the applicant State's
  Statewide Transportation Improvement Plan at the time of application.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State departments of transportation (including that of the District of Columbia).
  Applicant States must include intercity passenger rail service as an integral part
  of statewide transportation planning as required under section 135 of Title 23,
  United States Code.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  The general public, both users and non-users of intercity passenger rail service.
  State departments of transportation and other public agencies, although private
  transportation companies may participate through contractual arrangements with
