  a State department of transportation.                                              
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Department of Transportation, Federal Railroad Administration (FRA)                
  Assurances and Certification forms                                                 
  (http://www.fra.dot.gov/downloads/admin/assurancesandcertifications.pdf)           
  including: (1) Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, and Other            
  Responsibility Matters Primary Covered Transactions; (2) Certification             
  Regarding Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility and Voluntary Exclusion Lower       
  Tier Covered Transactions; 3) Certification Regarding Drug-Free Workplace          
  Requirements; 4) Certification Regarding Lobbying, 5) Assurances Non-              
  Construction Programs - SF 424B; and 6) Certificate of Indirect Costs              
  Assurances.                                                                        
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  Prospective applicants may contact FRA prior to submission of applications to      
  inquire about applicant eligibility, the competitive prospects of their proposed   
  project, the National Environmental Policy Act and related legal requirements,     
  and other requirements. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O.          
  12372.                                                                             
Application Procedure:                                                               
  The applicant must submit the following information to the FRA through             
  www.grants.gov: Application for Federal Assistance - SF-424; Detailed              
  Statement of Work; Project justification based on published selection criteria;    
  Detailed Budget, and Department of Transportation, Federal Railroad                
  Administration (FRA) Assurances and Certification forms                            
  (http://www.fra.dot.gov/downloads/admin/assurancesandcertifications.pdf)           
  including: 1) Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, and Other             
  Responsibility Matters Primary Covered Transactions; 2) Certification              
  Regarding Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility and Voluntary Exclusion Lower       
                                                                                     
  Tier Covered Transactions; 3) Certification Regarding Drug-Free Workplace

                                                                                     
  Requirements; 4) Certification Regarding Lobbying, 5) Assurances Non-

                                                                                     
  Construction Programs - SF 424B; and 6) Certificate of Indirect Costs

                                                                                     
  Assurances.

                                                                                     
Award Procedure:

                                                                                     
  Review the application package to ensure that all required documents are

                                                                                     
  complete and signed by the appropriate person. Review Statement of Work for

                                                                                     
  technical issues and budget for appropriateness of costs. Competitive

  comparison of applications to determine relative satisfaction of published

  selection criteria. Following selection of successful applicants, a grant agreement
  is drafted, reviewed, and signed upon agreement by both parties.                   
Deadlines:

  Applications may be submitted until the earlier of September 30, 2009, or the      
  date on which all available funds will have been committed under this program.

  The last-mentioned date will be announced in the Federal Register. Applications    
  submitted by June 30, 2008 will be considered in the first round of awards on      
  the basis of application materials that FRA has received as of that date. Any      
  subsequent rounds of awards will depend on the availability of funds after the     
  first round of awards.                                                             
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Notification of Approval/Disapproval generally occurs within 8 months of           
  application.                                                                       
Appeals:                                                                             
  To Administrator, Federal Railroad Administration.                                 
Renewals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  These programs have no statutory formula. Grantees must provide a minimum          
  50 percent match from non-program funds toward the grant budget. This              
  program has Maintenance of Effort requirements; see funding agency for further     
  details.                                                                           
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  No restriction on period of time the assistance normally is available. Assistance  
  is awarded upon request for reimbursement.                                         
Reports:                                                                             
  The grantee shall submit the following reports: (1) Quarterly progress reports     
  giving an account of significant progress (findings, events, trends, etc.) made    
  during the reporting period, and a description of any technical and/or cost        
  problems encountered or anticipated that will affect completion of the grant; (2)  
  Quarterly financial status reports using SF 269 or 269A, Financial Status Report;  
                                                                                     
  (3) Quarterly Federal Cash Transactions reports using SF 272, Federal Cash

                                                                                     
  Transaction Report; (4) Final report giving details of the results and benefits of

                                                                                     
  the Grantee's improvement efforts.

                                                                                     
Audits:

                                                                                     
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June

                                                                                     
  24, 1997), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"

                                                                                     
  nonfederal entities that receive financial assistance of $300,000 or more in

                                                                                     
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that

                                                                                     
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $300,000 a year in Federal

                                                                                     
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted

                                                                                     
  in Circular No. A-133.

                                                                                     
Records:



                                                                                11-08
  The grantee must keep satisfactory records with regard to the use of the property,
  equipment, and supplies and submit these records to FRA upon request.
Account Identification:
  27-0716-0-1-401.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $0; FY 08 est not available and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  None.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  None.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Guidance for this program is provided by The National Environmental Policy
  Act of 1969 as amended (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.), and related laws, the FRA
  publication entitled, Railroad Corridor Transportation Plans: A Guidance
  Manual (available at
  http://www.fra.dot.gov/Downloads/RRdev/corridor_planning.pdf), and Federal
  Register notices announcing the availability of funding pursuant to this program.
Regional or Local Office:
  If necessary to contact a regional office, the contact information will be in a
  grant agreement.
Headquarters Office:
  Peter Schwartz, RDV-11, Office of Railroad Development, 1200 New Jersey
  Avenue, S.E. Washington, DC 20590, Telephone: (202) 493-6360 Fax: (202)
  493-6333).
Web Site Address:
  http://www.fra.dot.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  All selection criteria will be specified in Federal Register notices announcing the
  availability of funding pursuant to this program, and shall include, but shall not
  be limited to, prioritizing criteria defined in relevant law, and criteria intended to
  ensure the timely completion of funding projects and the full realization of the
  benefits the projects are intended to generate.
20.318 MAGLEV PROJECT SELECTION PROGRAM -
SAFETEA-LU
   (Maglev Selection Program )
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FEDERAL RAILROAD ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF
  TRANSPORTATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  The Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy
  for Users (SAFETEA-LU) (Public Law 109-59, August 10, 2005), and the
  SAFETEA-LU Technical Corrections Act (Public Law 110-244, June 6, 2008).
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide financial assistance for a demonstration magnetic levitation
  transportation project.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds may be used for eligible project costs, including preconstruction planning
  activities, the capital cost of fixed guideway infrastructure of a maglev project,
  including land, piers, guideways, propulsion equipment and other components
  attached to guideways, power distribution facilities (including substations),
  control and communications facilities, access roads, and storage repair and
  maintenance facilities, but not including costs incurred for a new station.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State governments with existing maglev projects located east of the Mississippi
  River.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  State governments.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Ensure that National Environmental Policy Act and related legal requirements
  are fulfilled as needed. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O.
  12372.
Application Procedure:
  The applicant must submit the following information: Application for Federal
  Assistance SF-424; US Department of Transportation Federal Railroad
  Administration Assurances and Certification forms
  http://www.fra.dot.gov/downloads/admin/assurancesandcertifications.pdf;
  Certification Regarding Debarment, suspension, and other Responsibility
  Matters - Primary Covered Transactions; Certification Regarding Debarment,
  Suspension, Ineligibility and Voluntary Exclusion - Lower Tier Covered
                                                                                      723
