  Transactions; Certification Regarding Drug-Free Workplace Requirements;              
  Certification Regarding Lobbying; Assurances - Non-Construction Programs, SF         
  424E; Certificate of Indirect Costs; Detailed project descriptions, statement of     
  work, and budgets; Description of work completed to date; and description of         
  type and source of matching funds.                                                   
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  Review the application package to ensure that all required documents are             
  complete and signed by the appropriate person. Review the statement-of-work          
  (SOW) and budget to ensure the appropriation language requirements are met.          
  Review SOW for technical issues and budget for appropriate costs, including          
  compliance, or projected compliance, with the National Environmental Policy          
  Act and related laws/orders. Applications will be competitively compared to          
  determine relative satisfaction of published selection criteria. Following           
  selection (if applicable) and after the application package is acceptable to both    
  parties, a grant agreement is drafted, reviewed, and signed upon agreement by        
  both parties.                                                                        
Deadlines:

  Refer to announcement for further information.                                       
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Refer to announcement for further information.

Appeals:                                                                               
  None.

Renewals:                                                                              
  Not Applicable.                                                                      
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  This program has a 20 percent matching requirement. See the Safe,                    
  Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users       
  (SAFETEA-LU) (Public Law 109-59, August 10, 2005), and the SAFETEA-LU                
  Technical Corrections Act (Public Law 110-244, June 6, 2008).                        
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  The period of performance is up to 60 months.                                        
Reports:                                                                               
  The grantee shall submit the following reports: Quarterly progress reports giving    
  an account of significant progress (findings, events, trends, etc.) made during the  
  reporting period, and a description of any technical and/or cost problems            
  encountered or anticipated that will affect completion of the grant; Quarterly       
  financial status reports using SF 269 or 269A, Financial Status Report; Quarterly    
  Federal Cash Transactions reports using SF 272, Federal Cash Transaction             
  Report; and final report giving details of the results and benefits of the Grantee¿s 
  improvement efforts.                                                                 
Audits:                                                                                
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,           
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"           
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in          
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal     
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.        
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are      
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular    
  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through       
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than 9 months after the end of the        
  grantees fiscal year.                                                                
Records:                                                                               
  Grant records shall be retained for a period of three years from the day the         
  recipient submits its final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim,            
  negotiation, audit, or other action involving the records has been started before    
  the expiration of the three-year period, the records must be retained until          
  completion of the action and resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until  
  the end of the regular three-year period, whichever is later. Grant records include  
  financial and program/progress reports, support documents, statistical records,      
  and other documents that support the activity and/or expenditure of the recipient    
  or sub-recipient under the award.                                                    
Account Identification:                                                                
  69-8083-0-1-401.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  FY 08 $22,500,000; FY 09 $22,500,000 and FY 10 est not available.                    
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  TBD.                                                                                 
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  Building on work completed as a result of the funding from the Maglev                
  Deployment Program (as well as other miscellaneous sources of funding), this         
  program will advance the goal of constructing a demonstration maglev project.        
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  The National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 as amended (42 U.S.C. Section          
  4321 et seq.), and related laws; Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient              
  Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (Public Law 109-59);                   
  SAFETEA-LU Technical Corrections Act (Public Law 110-244); Final Rule on             
  the Magnetic Levitation Transportation Technology Deployment Program (23             
  CFR Part 322; OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments; OMB             
  Circular No. A-102 grants and cooperative agreements with State and local            
  governments; A-133 for audits. Solicitation guidelines will be made available.       


724                                                                              11-08

Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  John Cikota, Office of Railroad Development, 1200 New Jersey Ave S.E.,
  Washington, DC 20590. Telephone: (202) 493-6364; Fax: (202) 493-6330.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.fra.dot.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  20.314, Railroad Development.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Funding provided through the Maglev Deployment Program advanced two
  existing maglev projects that will be eligible for the current funding: (1) the
  Pittsburgh project; and (2) the Baltimore-Washington project. For both of those
  projects, preliminary engineering and environmental work has been completed.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Refer to the announcement for further information.
20.500 FEDERAL TRANSIT-CAPITAL INVESTMENT
GRANTS
   (Fixed Guideway Modernization Bus and Bus Facility New Starts)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF
  TRANSPORTATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  49 U.S.C. 5309.
OBJECTIVES:
  To assist in financing the acquisition, construction, reconstruction, and
  improvement of facilities, rolling stock and equipment for use in public
  transportation service. Funds are currently made available is three categories:
  Fixed Guideway Modernization formula program; Bus and Bus Facilities
  discretionary program; and New Starts discretionary program (new fixed
  guideway systems and extensions of existing systems).
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants; Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds may be used to assist State and local governmental authorities in
  financing: capital projects for new fixed guideway systems, and extensions to
  existing fixed guideway systems, including the acquisition of real property, the
  initial acquisition of rolling stock for the systems, and the acquisition of rights
  of way, and relocation, for fixed guideway corridor development for projects in
  the advanced stages of alternatives analysis or preliminary engineering; capital
  projects, the acquisition, construction, reconstruction and improvement of
  facilities and equipment for use by operation or lease or otherwise in mass
  transportation service, including property and improvements needed for an
  efficient and coordinated mass transportation system, including buses and bus
  facility equipment; the capital costs of coordinating transit with other
  transportation; and the introduction of new technology, through innovative and
  improved transportation; and the introduction of new technology, through
  innovative and improved products. Consideration may also be given for projects
  which enhance urban economic development; establish new or enhanced
  coordination between transit and other transportation; or enhance the
  effectiveness of a transit project and are related physically or functionally to that
  transit project. It could also include financing for transit projects planned,
  designed, and carried out to meet the special needs of elderly individuals and
  individuals with disabilities; for the development of corridors to support fixed
  guideway systems, including protecting rights of way through acquisition,
  construction of dedicated bus and high occupancy vehicle lanes and park-and-
  ride lots, and other nonvehicular capital improvements that the Secretary may
  decide would result in increased transit usage in the corridor.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Public agencies, including States; municipalities and other subdivisions of
  States; public agencies and instrumentalities of one or more States; and public
  corporations, boards, and commissions established under State law. Applicant
  must have legal, financial, and technical capacity to carry out proposed project,
  including safety and security aspects, and maintain facilities and equipment
  purchased with Federal assistance. Fixed Guideway formula funds are
  approtioned by formula to urbanized areas over 200,000 population with fixed
  guideway segments at least one mile long that are over seven years old. Bus and
  New Starts programs are allocated entirely to projects designated by Congress.
  Private non-profit organizations are not eligible direct recipients.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  The general public, both users and non-users of public transportation. Public
  agencies, although private transportation companies may participate through
  contractual arrangements with public agency grantee.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Resolution by an authorized public body approving the filing for an application;
  projects must be included in an urbanized area's transportation improvement
  program (TIP), in the State transportation improvement program (STIP) and
