Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  Following each decennial Census, each State must submit to FTA for approval a       
  formula, developed in cooperation with affected MPOs, for the distribution of a     
  State's Section 5303 apportionment to MPOs in each urbanized area. This             
  program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review        
  of Federal Programs." MPOs should consult the office or official designated as      
  the single point of contact in his or her State for more information on the process 
  the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has      
  selected the program for review.                                                    
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Application for a grant should be addressed to the appropriate Regional Office      
  of the Federal Transit Administration. FTA Circular 8100.1B dated October 25,       
  1996, Program Guidance and Application Instructions for Metropolitan Planning       
  Grants, provides detailed application information. Available on Internet at:        
  http://www.fta.dot.gov./laws/circulars /leg_reg_4123.html. States may apply         
  through a paperless electronic grant application, review, approval, acceptance,     
  and management process. This program is excluded from coverage under 49             
  CFR Part 19.                                                                        
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  FTA will approve and release the grant by the end of the quarterly cycle or         
  earlier provided the application is complete.                                       
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Grant applications are due in the appropriate FTA Regional Office no later than     
  the first business day of the quarter.                                              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  In FY 04, FTA awarded planning grants to the states within an average of 9 days     
  after submission of a complete application.

Appeals:                                                                              
  Not applicable.

Renewals:                                                                             
  Grants may be amended to add additional funds.

Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  The new budget authority for Fiscal Year 2008 Section 5303 appropriation to         
  States for Metropolitan Planning Organizations totals $88,510,400. A basic          
  allocation of 80 percent of the amount available annually is distributed to the     
  States based on urbanized area population for State distribution. A supplemental    
  allocation of the remaining 20 percent is also provided to the states based on an   
  FTA administrative formula to address planning needs in the larger urbanized        
  areas. A January 28, 2008 Federal Register Notice, FTA Fiscal Year 2008             
  Apportionments and Allocations, provides a table (Table 2) which contains the       
  final combined State apportionments. The funding ratio for these grants is 80       
  percent Federal, 20 percent local match of net project costs. In addition, under    
  provisions enacted in SAFETEA-LU, current year funds can be transferred from        
  the Federal Highway Administration to form Consolidated Planning Grants. FTA        
  funds can also be transferred to FHWA to form consolidated Planning Grants.         
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Funds are available for 3 years following the year for which they were              
  appropriated.                                                                       
Reports:                                                                              
  (1) Progress reports; (2) Financial report upon completion of the project; and (3)  
  Final technical study report (if applicable).                                       
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133, "Audits of            
  States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations," nonfederal entities        
  that expend $500,000 or more in a year in Federal awards shall have a single or     
  program specific audit conducted that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less    
  than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit                
  requirements for that year with certain exceptions as stated in OMB Circular No.    
  A-133.                                                                              
Records:                                                                              
  Project sponsor is required to retain intact, for 3 years following submission of   
  the final Financial Status Report pending resolution of audit findings, all project 
  contract documents, financial records, and supporting documents.                    
Account Identification:                                                               
  69-1137-0-1-401; 69-8350-0-7-401.                                                   
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Grants) FY 07 $135,959,000; FY 08 est $73,845,000; and FY 09 est                   
  $99,930,000 not available.                                                          
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  $20,000 to $5,000,000.                                                              
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  Since 1992, $180,000,000 have been obligated for transportation planning            
  activities in metropolitan areas. Multimodal transportation planning studies are    
  emphasized through coordinated funding with other DOT administrations.              
  Refinement of the transit elements of long-range plans and an expansion of          
  short-range planning for improvements to the existing urban transportation          
  system are also emphasized. Capital transportation improvement programs are         
  produced annually/biennially as well as metropolitan transportation plans.          
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  FTA Fiscal Year 2008 Apportionments, Allocations, and Program Information;          


726                                                                             11-08

  Notice and Fiscal Year 2008 Annual List of Certifications and Assurances for
  Federal Transit Administration Grants and Cooperative Agreements; Notice,
  published annually. For fiscal year 2008, the publication date was January 28,
  2008. For other fiscal years, contact the FTA Regional Office to obtain the
  publication date for other fiscal years. FTA website:
  www.fta.dot.gov/funding/grants_financing_93.html.
Regional or Local Office:
  See Appendix IV of the Catalog for a listing of Federal Transit Administration
  regional offices and DOT Metropolitan Offices.
Headquarters Office:
  FTA Office of Planning and Environment (TPE-10), Candace Noonan, (202)
  366-1648, Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation, 1200
  New Jersey Ave. S.E., Washington, DC 20590.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.fta.dot.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  20.205, Highway Planning and Construction; 20.500, Federal Transit_Capital
  Investment Grants; 20.507, Federal Transit_Formula Grants; 20.514, Public
  Transportation Research; 20.515, State Planning and Research.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  The Metropolitan Council of Twin Cities area received planning funds from the
  State of Minnesota to support the transportation planning process in the
  Minneapolis-St. Paul urbanized area.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Funding is allocated to the States for pass through to various Metropolitan
  Planning Organizations within their jurisdictions.
20.507 FEDERAL TRANSIT-FORMULA GRANTS
   (Urbanized Area Formula Program)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF
  TRANSPORTATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  49 U.S.C. 5307.
OBJECTIVES:
  To support public transportation services in urbanized areas (cities over 50,000
  population).
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds may be used for capital projects to finance the planning, acquisition,
  construction, cost-effective lease, improvement, and maintenance of equipment
  and facilities for use in transit. One percent of the funds apportioned to
  urbanized areas with a population of at least 200,000 must be expended for
  transit enhancements. For urbanized areas with populations under 200,000,
  funds may be used to finance transit operating costs. Recipients of these grants
  are required to make information available to the public and to publish a
  program of projects to afford affected citizens opportunities through public
  hearings to submit comments on the proposed program and the performance of
  the recipient.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Funds will be made available to urbanized areas (as defined by the U.S. Census
  Bureau) through designated recipients, which must be public entities and have
  the legal capacity to receive and dispense Federal funds. The Governor,
  responsible local officials, and publicly owned operators of mass transportation
  services must jointly select the designated recipient(s) for an urbanized area with
  a population of 200,000 or more. The Governor or his designee is the designated
  recipient for an urbanized area with a population of 50,000 to 199,999.
  Recipients must submit a program of projects to FTA; submit a program
  application to FTA; enter into formal agreements with FTA; and certify that
  public notification has been conducted.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  The general public, both users and non-users, and publicly owned operators of
  public transportation services.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Resolution by an authorized public body approving the filing for an application;
  projects must be included in an urbanized area's transportation improvement
  program (TIP), and in the Statewide transportation improvement program (STIP)
  approved by FTA and FHWA. Information must be provided on labor
  agreements and relocation planning; environmental impact; legal capacity;
  coordinated regional planning; and compliance with certifications and
  assurances as compiled in FTA's Annual List of Certifications and Assurances.
  Eligible costs must be in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and
  local governments. A notice is published annually in the Federal Register on
  FTA's fiscal year apportionments and allocations. The notice contains list of the
  amount apportioned to each urbanized area. The final apportionment amounts
  for fiscal year 2008 were published in the January 28, 2008 notice. Prior year
  notices can be found on the FTA website at www.fta.dot.gov/ or by contacting
