  the appropriate FTA Regional Office to obtain copies or publication dates.          
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  An environmental impact assessment may be required. In addition, an                 
  environmental impact statement may also be required. This program is eligible       
  for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal                 
  Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the     
  single point of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the 
  State requires to be followed in applying for assistance under the FTA 49 U.S.C.    
  5307 program.                                                                       
Application Procedure:                                                                
  This program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-87 and 49           
  CFR Part 18. Applications are to be submitted in the Transportation Electronic      
  Award Management system. (TEAM-Web), which is the FTA electronic grant-             
  making and record keeping system.                                                   
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  An FTA grant award obligating Federal funds is reflected in a grant agreement.      
  To access funds, the recipient must execute the grant agreement.                    
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Applications may be submitted throughout the fiscal year. Funds are usually         
  available for obligation approximately 10 days after the President signs the        
  appropriation bill for a particular fiscal year.                                    
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  In FY 07, FTA obligated Urbanized Area formula grants in 26 days (on                
  average)after submission of a complete application.                                 
Appeals:                                                                              
  Opportunity for public hearing for interested persons.                              
Renewals:                                                                             
  Funds are apportioned annually to each urbanized area. Grants may be amended        
  to add newly available funds for a continuing project.                              
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Funding is apportioned on the basis of legislative formulas. For urbanized areas    
  with populations 50,000 to 199,999 the formula is based on population and           
  population density, and performance statistics for those areas eligible for         
  funding under the Small Transit Intensive Cities formula. For urbanized areas       
  with populations of 200,000 or more, the formula is based on a combination of       
  bus revenue vehicle miles, bus passenger miles, fixed guideway revenue miles,       
  and fixed guideway route miles as well as population and population density.

  Also, funding made available to an urbanized under the Growing States and

                                                                                      
  High Density States formula factors (49 USC 5340) are combined with funds

  apportioned to an area under the Urbanized Area Formula program. The                
  program operates under the statutory formula prescribed in 49 USC 5336. The         
  Federal share is not to exceed 80 percent of the net project cost. The Federal

  share may be 90 percent for the cost of vehicle-related equipment attributable to   
  compliance with the American with Disabilities Act and the Clear Air Act. The       
  Federal share may also be 90 percent for projects or portions of projects related   
  to bicycles facilities. The Federal share may not exceed 50 percent of the net cost 
  for operating assistance.                                                           
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Funds apportioned under the Urbanized Area Formula program are available for        
  obligation by the Governor, designated recipient, or authorized grant recipient     
  for a period of 3 years following the close of the fiscal year for which such funds 
  are apportioned. Any amounts remaining unobligated at the end of this period        
  are distributed among all urbanized areas.                                          
Reports:                                                                              
  (1) Progress reports. (2) Financial status reports, which must be submitted         
  quarterly for recipients in urbanized areas over 200,000 population; annually for   
  other recipients and states. (3) Construction reports where applicable. (4) Annual  
  report to the National Transit Database (NTD).                                      
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of             
  States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations," nonfederal entities        
  that expend $500,000 or more in a year in Federal awards shall have a single or     
  program specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend     
  less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit           
  requirements for that year with certain exceptions as stated in OMB Circular No.    
  A-133.                                                                              
Records:                                                                              
  Recipient is required to retain intact, for 3 years following submission of the     
  final expenditure report, pending resolution of audit findings, all project contract
  documents, financial records and supporting documents.                              
Account Identification:                                                               
  69-1129-0-1-401; 69-8350-0-7-401.                                                   
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Grants) FY 07 $5,540,822,000; FY 08 $4,230,751,000; and FY 09                      
  $5,498,651,000.                                                                     
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  Varies according to local programming of available formula funds and the level      
  of operating expenses incurred.                                                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  Federal funds have supported the replacement and rehabilitation of the existing     


                                                                                 11-08
  rail fleet and restoration of rail facilities such as stations, track, and yards and
  shops; helped to increase the percentage of bus and rail maintenance facilities in
  good or better condition; and contributed significantly to the continuing effort to
  make the national fixed-route bus system 100 percent lift-or-ramp equipped. In
  fiscal year 2007 $5.5 billion was awarded in grants.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Formula Grant Application Instructions may be accessed on the FTA website or
  secured at no charge from the FTA Regional Offices - FTA Circular 9030.1C,
  "Urbanized Area Formula Program: Grant Application Instructions," October 1,
  1998.
Regional or Local Office:
  See Appendix IV of the Catalog for a listing of Federal Transit Administration
  regional offices.
Headquarters Office:
  FTA Office of Program Management, Director, Office of Transit Programs,
  1200 New Jersey Avenue, S.E., Washington, DC 20590. Scott Faulk, Telephone:
  (202) 366-2053.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.fta.dot.gov/.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  20.205, Highway Planning and Construction; 20.500, Federal Transit_Capital
  Investment Grants; 20.505, Federal Transit_Metropolitan Planning Grants;
  20.509, Formula Grants for Other Than Urbanized Areas.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Grants were awarded to: (1) Kansas City Area Transportation Authority for
  engineering, design and construction of the Kansas City Union Station
  Intermodal Facility; (2) Flint, MI Mass Transportation Authority for expansion
  of existing bus garage and renovation of operations/maintenance facility; (3)
  Golden Gate Bridge, Highway and Transportation District for 48 replacement
  buses, one expansion ferry vessel, and operating assistance; (4) Southwest Ohio
  Regional Transit Authority for Park and Ride lots and right-of-way acquisition;
  and (5) Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation for Rail Transit Way Lines,
  rail station stops/terminals and rail support equipment and facilities.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Projects must be eligible public transportation projects and meet all formula
  grant requirements.
20.509 FORMULA GRANTS FOR OTHER THAN
URBANIZED AREAS
   (Nonurbanized Area Formula Program)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF
  TRANSPORTATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  49 U.S.C. 5311.
OBJECTIVES:
  To improve, initiate, or continue public transportation service in nonurbanized
  areas (rural and small areas under 50,000 population) and to provide technical
  assistance for rural transportation providers.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Section 5311 funds may be used for eligible capital expenses, project
  administration, and operating expenses needed to provide efficient and
  coordinated public transportation service in nonurbanized areas. States may use
  up to 15 per cent of the annual apportionment for planning and program
  administration. Projects must provide for the maximum feasible coordination of
  public transportation sources assisted under this section with transportation
  services assisted by other Federal sources, and must provide for the maximum
  feasible participation of private operators. Fifteen percent of the State's annual
  apportionment must be spent to support rural intercity bus transportation, unless
  the governor certifies that such needs are adequately met. Rural Transit
  Assistance Program (RTAP) funds may be used for technical assistance,
  training, research, and related support services.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Only designated State agencies and Indian Tribes may apply directly to FTA for
  grants. Eligible sub-recipients may include State agencies, local public bodies
  and agencies thereof, nonprofit organizations, Indian tribes, and operators of
  public transportation services, including intercity bus service, in rural and small
  urban areas. Private for-profit operators of transit or paratransit services may
  participate in the program only through contracts with eligible recipients.
  Private intercity bus operators may participate as subrecipients or through
  contracts. Urbanized areas, as defined by the Bureau of the Census, are not
  eligible.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  The general public, both users and nonusers, and private and public providers of
  public transportation in nonurbanized areas.
Credentials/Documentation:
                                                                                    727
