  The State agency must be designitated by the Governor to administer the               
  program. Projects must be included in the State Transportation Improvement            
  Program (STIP) approved by FTA and FHWA. The state and subrecipients must             
  agree to the standard labor protection warranty for the program. Environmental        
  assessments may be required. Compliance with FTA's annual list of                     
  Certifications and Assurances is required. Eligible coast must be in accordance       
  with OMB Circular A-87. The state must submit a program of projects listing all       
  subrecipients and projects in accordance with FTA Circular 9040.1F issued             
  April 4, 2007. FTA annually issues a Federal Register Notice of apportionments,       
  allocations and program information. For fiscal year 07, the publication date was     
  March 23, 2007. Prior year notices can be found on the FTA website at                 
  www.fta.dot.gov or by contacting the appropriate FTA regional office to obtain        
  copies or publication dates.                                                          
Preapplication Coordination:                                                            
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental            
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official       
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information    
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the   
  State has selected the program for review.                                            
Application Procedure:                                                                  
  Eligible sub-recipients should submit application to the State agency designated      
  by the Governor to administer the program. This agency will evaluate and select       
  eligible applicants and submit a program of projects to the Federal Transit           
  Administration. The provisions of 49 CFR, Part 18, apply to the state and             
  governmental bodies, and 49 CFR Part 19 applies to the private non-profit             
  organizations.                                                                        
Award Procedure:                                                                        
  The Federal Transit Administration approves the State's program of projects. An       
  FTA grant award obligating Federal funds is reflected in a grant agreement. To        
  access funds, the state must execute the grant agreement. The state implements        
  grant agreements or other instructions with the subrecipients.                        
Deadlines:                                                                              
  States may submit applications to FTA throughout the fiscal year. Funds are           
  available for obligation for three fiscal years. Local transit operators apply to the 
  state as subrecipients on cycle as prescribed the State agency designated to          
  administer the Section 5311 program.                                                  
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                     
  As prescribed by the State agency designated to administer the Section 5311           
  program. FTA approves grants on a quarterly release cycle.                            
Appeals:                                                                                
  Interested persons are afforded the opportunity of a public hearing for capital       
  projects.                                                                             
Renewals:                                                                               
  Subreciients typically receive funding through the designated State agency.           
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                      
  Program funds are apportioned annually to the states according to a statutory         
  formula based on 20 percent of the funds are allocated by the ratio of                
  nonurbanized land area of each State to the nonurbanized land area of all of the      
  States with no State receiving more than five percent of these funds. Eighty          
  percent are allocated by the ration of nonurbainzed population of each State to       
  the nonurbanized population of all of the states. In addition to the funds made       
  available to States under section 5311, approximately 16 percent of the funds         
  authorized for the new section 5340 Growing States and High Density States            
  formula factors will be apportioned to States for use in nonurbanized areas.          
  Rural Transit Assistance Program (RTAP) is funded as a two percent takedown

  from the amount authorized and appropriated for Section 5311 and can be used          
  for technical assistance, training. Research and related support activities. From     
  the amounts made available for RTAP, up to 15 percent may be used by the

  Secretary to carry-our projects of f national scope with the remaining balance to     
  the states. Funds are allocated annually based on an administrative formula that

  provides a base amount to each state and allocates the balance according to the       
  nonurbanized area population. The maximum Federal share eligible capital and          
  project administration costs is 80 percent, except for three categories of projects   
  that can be funded at 90 percent share: projects designed specifically to increase    
  the accessibility of public transportation to bicycles and vehicle related            
  equipment required to comply with the ADA or the Clean Air Act. The                   
  maximum FTA share for operating assistance is 50 percent of the net operating         
  deficit. Other Federal funds may be used for half of the local match requirement.     
  Income from purchase of service contracts with human service agencies may be          
  used for the entire local share for operating assistance. There is no matching        
  requirement for RTAP or for state administration.                                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                  
  Funds are apportioned annually to the States. Sums apportioned are available for      
  obligation by the State designated agency for a period of 2 years following the       
  close of the fiscal year for which sums are apportioned, and amounts remaining        
  unobligated at the end of such period shall be apportioned among the States for       
  the succeeding fiscal year. States usually fund local recipients on an annual         
  cycle.                                                                                
Reports:                                                                                
  States submit progress reports and Financial Status Reports annually to FTA.          


728                                                                               11-08

  States may require additional reports from recipients.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133, "Audits of
  States, Local Governments and Nonprofit Organizations," nonfederal entities
  that expend $500,000 or more in a year in Federal awards shall have a single or
  program specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend
  less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit
  requirements for that year, with certain exceptions as stated in OMB Circular
  No. A-133.
Records:
  Recipient is required to retain intact, for 3 years following submission of the
  final expenditure report, all contract documents, financial records, and
  supporting documents.
Account Identification:
  FTA: 69-1129-0-1-401; 69-8350-0-7-401.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 est $492,837,736; and FY 08 est $452,410,960; and FY 09 est
  $601,781,050.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Not applicable.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Since 1979 assistance has been provided to over 1,300 providers of rural and
  small urban transportation.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  FTA Circular 9040.1, Nonurbanized Area Formula Program Guidance and Grant
  Application instructions.
Regional or Local Office:
  See Appendix IV of the Catalog for the address of Federal Transit
  Administration Regional Offices. State Designated Agency: The Governor in
  each State has designated a State agency to administer the Section 5311
  program. This should be the first contact point. Regional Offices: A person from
  each Federal Transit Administration Regional Office is available to answer
  questions about Federal regulations related to the Nonurbanized Formula
  Program.
Headquarters Office:
  Federal Transit Administration, Office of Program Management, Office of
  Capital and Formula Assistance, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Washington,
  DC 20590. Lorna Wilson Telephone: (202) 366-0893.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.fta.dot.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  20.500, Federal Transit_Capital Investment Grants; 20.507, Federal
  Transit_Formula Grants; 20.513, Capital Assistance Program for Elderly Persons
  and Persons with Disabilities; 20.516, Job Access_Reverse Commute; 20.521,
  New Freedom Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  A typical local recipient of Section 5311 operates a fleet of about six vans or
  small buses in demand responsive and fixed route service. Section 5311
  provides replacement vehicles and covers about a quarter of the average
  $316,000 annual operating budget. The State receives Federal funds for a
  statewide program of projects.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  As described by the State designated agency in its procedures or State
  management plan.
20.513 CAPITAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM FOR ELDERLY
PERSONS AND PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
   (Elderly and Persons with Disabilities Program)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF
  TRANSPORTATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  49 U.S.C. 5310.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide financial assistance in meeting the transportation needs of elderly
  persons and persons with disabilities where public transportation services are
  unavailable, insufficient or inappropriate. The Section 5310 program is designed
  to supplement FTA's other capital assistance programs by funding transportation
  projects for elderly persons and persons with disabilities in all areas - urbanized,
  small urban, and rural.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Section 5310 funding may be used for eligible capital expenses needed to
  provide efficient and coordinated specialized transportation service for elderly
  persons and persons with disabilities. Projects must provide for the maximum
  feasible coordination of transportation services assisted under this section with
  transportation assisted by other Federal sources and must provide for the
