  maximum feasible participation of private-for-profit operators.                   
Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  Only designated states may apply for FTA grants. Eligible sub-recipients          
  include private nonprofit organizations, public bodies approved by the State to   
  coordinate services for elderly persons and persons with disabilities and public  
  bodies which certify to the governor that no nonprofit corporations or            
  associations are readily available in an area to provide the service.             
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                            
  Elderly persons and persons with disabilities.                                    
Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  The State must be designated by the Governor to administer the program.           
  Projects must be included in the State Transportation Improvement Program         
  (STIP) approved by FTA and FHWA. Compliance with FTA's annual list of             
  Certifications and Assurances is required. Eligible costs must be in accordance   
  with OMB Circular A-87. The state must submit a program of projects listing       
  all subrecipients and projects in accordance with FTA Circular 9070.1E. FTA       
  annually issues a Federal Register Notice of apportionments, allocations, and     
  program information. For fiscal year 06, the publication date was November 30,    
  2005. Prior year notices can be found on the FTA website at www.fta.dot.gov/      
  or by contacting the appropriate FTA Regional office to obtain copies or          
  publication dates.                                                                
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental        
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official   
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance.      
Application Procedure:                                                              
  Local agencies should submit application to the State agency designated by the    
  Governor to administer the program. This agency will evaluate, select and         
  approve eligible applicants and submit a program of projects to the Federal       
  Transit Administration. The provisions of 49 CFR Part 18 apply to the State and   
  governmental bodies and 49 CFR Part 19 applies to private nonprofit               
  organizations.                                                                    
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  The Federal Transit Administration approves the State's Program of Projects.      
  An FTA grant award obligating Federal funds us reflected in a grant agreement.    
  To access funds, the State must execute the grant agreement. The State            
  implements grant agreements or other instruments with the subrecipients.          
Deadlines:                                                                          
  States may submit applications to FTA throughout the fiscal year. Funds are       
  available for obligation for three years, which includes the year funds are       
  apportioned plus two additional years. Local agencies apply to the state as       
  subrecipients on a cycle prescribed by the state agency designed to administer    
  the Section 5310 program.                                                         
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  Each state has its own cycle for subrecipients. In FY 05, FTA obligated Section

  5310 formula grants to the States in an average of 4 days after submission of a   
  complete application.

Appeals:                                                                            
  Interested persons are afforded the opportunity of a public hearing for capital

  projects.                                                                         
Renewals:                                                                           
  As determined by the designated State agency.                                     
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  Funds for this program are allocated among the States by a formula which is       
  based on the population of elderly persons and persons with disabilities in each  
  State according to the latest U.S. Census population figures. Grants may be       
  made for 80 percent of the eligible project costs. SAFETEA-LU allows states       
  eligible for the sliding scale match under under FHWA programs to use that        
  match ratio for section 5310 capital projects. Funds provided under other         
  Federal programs (other than those of the Department of Transportation, with the  
  exception of the Federal Lands Highway Program established by section 204 of      
  Title 23 U.S.C.) may be used as match for capital funds provided under section    
  5310.                                                                             
                                                                                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

  Section 5310 program funds are available to the States for three years, which     
  includes the fiscal year in which they were allocated plus two additional years.  
  Unobligated Section 5310 funds may be transferred to the Section 5311 or          
  Section 5307 programs within the last 90 days of the fiscal year. Any funds not   
                                                                                    
  obligated or transferred by the end of the period of availability will be

                                                                                    
  redistributed to all the States by formula in the succeeding fiscal year.

                                                                                    
Reports:

  As requested by the State and Federal agencies administering the program.         
                                                                                    
  States must submit annual status reports and annual financial reports.

                                                                                    
Audits:

  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June        
  27, 2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,      
                                                                                    
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in

                                                                                    
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that

                                                                                    
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal



                                                                               11-08
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Recipient is required to retain intact, for 3 years following submission of the
  final financial report, all contract documents, financial records, and supporting
  documents with the following qualification: If any litigation, claim or audit is
  started before the expiration of the 3-year period, the records must be retained
  until all litigation, claims or audit findings involving the records have been
  resolved.
Account Identification:
  69-1129-0-1-401; 69-8350-0-7-401.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $157,781,000; FY 08 est $117,242,000; and FY 09 est
  $153,805,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Statewide: For FY 2006, $62,456 - $11,687,113.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  This special program of assistance was begun in fiscal year 1975, when $20
  million was distributed to more than 1,000 private nonprofit organizations to
  purchase vehicles to transport the elderly and persons with disabilities. Today,
  nearly 4,000 local subrecipients receive funding, and continuation of this
  program has enabled thousands of elderly persons and persons with disabilities
  to achieve greater mobility and independence.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  FTA Circular 9070.1E, The Elderly and Persons with Disabilities Program
  Guidance and Application Instructions, dated October 1, 1998.
Regional or Local Office:
  See Appendix IV of the Catalog for the address of Federal Transit
  Administration's Regional Offices. State- Designated Agency: The Governor in
  each State has designated a State agency to administer the Section 5310
  program.
Headquarters Office:
  Federal Transit Administration, Office of Program Management, Office of
  Resource Management and State Programs, 1200 New Jersey Avenue S.E., East
  Building-Fourth Floor, Washington, DC 20590. Telephone: (202) 493-0175.
  David Schneider, Program Specialist.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.fta.dot.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  20.500, Federal Transit_Capital Investment Grants.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  A typical project provided $1 million to a State that used the funds to purchase
  35 accessible vehicles for 30 local subrecipients throughout the State.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  As described by the State designated agency.
20.514 PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION RESEARCH
   (National Research Programs)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF
  TRANSPORTATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  49 U.S.C. 5314(a).
OBJECTIVES:
  The Federal Transit Administration's research program seeks to deliver solutions
  that improve public transportation. Its primary goals are to increase transit
  ridership, improve safety and emergency preparedness, improve capital
  operating efficiencies, protect the environment and promote energy
  independence, and provide transit research leadership. To accomplish this, FTA
  funds research on mobility management, transit operational efficiency, safety
  and emergency preparedness, transit capacity building, energy independence and
  environmental protection, infrastructure and equipment protection and
  innovation, and strategic research program planning.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements); Dissemination of Technical
  Information; Training.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  This program includes several types of projects, including research,
  development, demonstration and training projects (49 U.S.C., Section 5312),
  and human resource programs (49 U.S.C., Section 5322).
Applicant Eligibility:
  Grants and cooperative agreements: Public bodies, nonprofit institutions, State
  and local agencies, universities, and legally constituted public agencies and
  operators of public transportation services, and private for-profit organizations.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  State and local governments, transit agencies, private organizations, profit
  organizations, nonprofit organizations, and universities.
Credentials/Documentation:
                                                                                   729
