  Grants and cooperative agreements: Initial proposal should include project          
  objectives, background, and project description, including time schedule,           
  budget, and applicant's organizational experience. Legal opinion and                
  compliance with labor requirements are required later. Costs will be determined     
  in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments, A-        
  21 for universities, A-122 for private nonprofit organizations, and the Federal     
  Acquisition Regulations for private for profit organizations. Contracts are         
  awarded in response to specific requests for proposal.                              
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  Although applications for research, development and demonstration projects          
  may be submitted at any time, potential applicants are encouraged to                
  communicate with FTA before submitting formal applications. The initial             
  contact may be by telephone, by submitting a written outline, or by personally      
  meeting with appropriate FTA Headquarters staff. This preliminary contact will      
  serve to: (1) establish a base for communication between FTA and the                
  applicants; (2) determine the a applicant's eligibility; (3) eliminate any proposal 
  which have little or no chance for Federal funding before applicants incur          
  expenditures involved in proposal preparation; and (4) determine funding            
  available and conformance to FTA policy and program objectives. This program        
  is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal     
  Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the     
  single point of contact in their State for more information on the process the      
  State requires in applying for assistance if the State has selected the program for 
  review. The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency and       
  required by 49 CFR Part 18 or 49 CFR Part 19 must be used for this program.         
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Potential applicants should follow instructions found in FTA Circular 6100.1C,      
  "Transit Research and Technology Programs: Application and Program                  
  Management Guidelines." This Circular may be found at the FTA web site at           
  www.fta.dot.gov. This program is subject to the provisions of 49 CFR Part 18        
  for State and local governments and 49 CFR Part 19 for universities and private     
  nonprofit organizations.                                                            
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  The Administrator, Federal Transit Administration, makes the final decision to      
  approve a project. An FTA grant or cooperative agreement award obligating           
  Federal funds is reflected in a grant agreement or cooperative agreement. To        
  access funds, the recipient must execute the grant agreement or cooperative         
  agreement.                                                                          
Deadlines:                                                                            
  No fixed or standard deadlines for research, development, and demonstration         
  projects.                                                                           
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Varies.                                                                             
Appeals:                                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Renewals:                                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Research, development, and demonstration projects: FTA encourages cost-             
  sharing by performing organizations to the extent feasible and equitable. Cost-     
  sharing is not a prerequisite to funding. However, it is actively considered in the 
  evaluation of proposals. The amount of such sharing is determined by mutual         
  agreement between FTA and the recipient. More weight is given to programs           
  with a greater local share and proposals with cash contributions than to in-kind    
  contributions.                                                                      
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Varies with the complexity of the project.                                          
Reports:                                                                              
  (1) Quarterly financial; (2) quarterly or monthly progress; and (3) interim and     
  final. Electronic filing is preferred.                                              
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of State       
  and Local Governments and Nonprofit Organizations," nonfederal entities             
  (including universities) that expend $500,000 or more in a year in Federal          
  awards shall have a single or program specific audit conducted for that year.       
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are     
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year with certain exceptions as     
  stated in OMB Circular No. A-133. For direct procurement contracts, audits          
  will be conducted in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulations.           
Records:

  Grant recipients shall retain records for 3 years following submission of a final

  expenditure report, pending resolution of audit findings, all project contracts     
  documents, financial records, and supporting records.                               
Account Identification:

  69-1137-0-1-401.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Transit Planning and Research Grants and Contracts) FY 07 est $34,414,761;         
  FY 08 est $39,990,000; and FY 09 est not available.                                 
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  None.                                                                               


730                                                                             11-08

PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  (1) FTA initiated the Bus Rapid Transit Demonstration Program integrating
  vehicle technology, Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS), coordinated
  services, traffic engineering enhancements, and innovative urban design.
  Seventeen cities have formed a BRT consortium to share ideas and experience in
  implementing BRT. (2) The Advanced Technology Transit Bus (ATTB) test
  vehicle was successfully developed and tested. This revolutionary low-floor,
  light- weight, easily accessible bus features low-emission propulsion. (3) FTA,
  working with an industry committee (natural gas suppliers and transit operators)
  produced a detailed technical guideline document defining basic safety
  requirements for fueling facilities, vehicles, bus garages and storage areas. (4)
  Four-quadrant gates linked to a vehicle detection system are being demonstrated
  on a commuter-rail highway grade crossing in the Boston area to prevent
  motorists from attempting to drive around closed crossing gates. (5) Project
  ACTION (Accessible Community Transportation in Our Nation) has
  implemented accessible transportation initiatives, made national presentations
  on accessible transportation and distributed thousands of copies of "how-to"
  publications. (6) The JobLinks program provided Welfare-to-Work pilot
  demonstrations, evaluations and technical assistance that were instrumental in
  designing the Job Access and Reverse Commute Program enacted in TEA-21.
  (7) In collaboration with the Federal Highway Administration, FTA published a
  3-volume guidance manual on developing and implementing Transportation
  Demand Management (TDM) measures and developed and tested a pilot training
  course on TDM. (8) FTA prepared and disseminated descriptions of FTA
  Research and Technology programs and projects and annotated bibliographies of
  recent technical reports related to transit; these are available on the FTA
  Research and Technology website: http://www.fta.dot.gov.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Fiscal Year 2008 Annual List of Certifications and Assurances for Federal
  Transit Administration Grants and Cooperative Agreements; Notice, published
  October 1, 2008. For other fiscal years, contact the FTA Office of Research
  Demonstration and Innovation to obtain the publication dates. FTA website
  www.fta.dot.gov. Other information will be made available upon request.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Associate Administrator for Research, Demonstration and Innovation (TRI-1),
  Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation, 1200 New Jersey
  Ave. S.E., Washington, DC 20590. Telephone: (202) 366-4052. Bruce
  Robinson, Office of Research, Demonstration and Innovation, (202) 366-4209.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.fta.dot.gov/research.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  20.500, Federal Transit_Capital Investment Grants; 20.507, Federal
  Transit_Formula Grants; 20.515, State Planning and Research.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Nearly all projects funded in recent years were at the direction of the Congress
  under the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A
  Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU). or annual appropriations acts. Most projects
  funded in recent years were at the direction of the Congress under annual
  appropriation actions. Projects funded during FY 2008 included: (1) Transit
  safety and Security Statistics; (2) Transit Safety and Security Training; (3) Rail
  safety research (4) Fuel Cell Research; (5) Hyrbrid Electric Vehicle research; (6)
  Rail Capacity Improvement Research and (7) Mobility Services for All
  Americans Research.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Proposals must support the FTA Strategic Plan, available on the FTA Home
  Page of the Internet at http://www.fta.dot.gov. If a preliminary proposal is
  judged to meet program and funding availability, FTA will invite formal
  proposal submission or cooperative agreement application. Criteria for
  preliminary approval include: (1) compatibility with FTA Strategic Plan and
  Strategic Research Plan; (2) availability of funding; (3) potential for impact on
  the state-of-the-art from the viewpoint of innovation in transit technology,
  services and operations; (4) technical feasibility and potential for successful
  introduction into use in the transit industry; (5) background, experience, and
  demonstrated capabilities of the applicant; (6) partnerships with public and
  private organizations; (7) non-FTA funding match; and (8) other pertinent
  matters, such as geographic distribution of projects and questions of
  environmental and labor impact.
20.515 STATE PLANNING AND RESEARCH
   (State Planning and Research Program)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF
  TRANSPORTATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  49 U.S.C. 5304.
OBJECTIVES:
