  To assist in the development of cost effective multimodal transportation           
  improvement programs which include the planning, engineering, and designing        
  of Federal Transit projects, and other technical studies in a program for a unified
  and officially coordinated Statewide Transportation system.                        
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Formula Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  This is a consolidated program which is apportioned to the States under 49         
  U.S.C., Chapter 53 which includes such activities as planning, technical studies   
  and assistance, innovative demonstrations, management training, and                
  cooperative research. In addition, a State may authorize a portion of these funds  
  to be used to supplement and administer Metropolitan Planning funds allocated      
  by the State to its urbanized areas, as the State deems appropriate.               
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Apportionments are made to the States.                                             
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Apportionments are made to the States.                                             
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Federal Register Notice, "FTA Fiscal Year 2008 Apportionments, Allocations,        
  and Program Information", published annually, contains the State apportionment     
  in Table 2. For fiscal year 2008, the publication date was January 28, 2008. For   
  other fiscal years, contact the FTA Regional Office or refer to the FTA web site   
  to obtain the publication dates. The FTA website is:                               
  www.fta.dot.gov/funding/grants_financing_38.html.htm.                              
Preapplication Coordination:

  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental

                                                                                     
  Review of Federal Programs." A sub-recipient should consult the office or

  official designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more    
  information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for       
  assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.                      
Application Procedure:                                                               
  FTA Circular 8200.1 dated December 27, 2001, Program Guidance and                  
  Application Instructions for State Planning and Research Program Grants"           
  provides detailed application information. It is available at                      
  www.fta.dot.gov/laws/circulars/leg_reg_4124.html.                                  
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  If the application is complete, FTA will approve and release the grant.            
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Applications may be submitted throughout the fiscal year.                          
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  If completed applications are submitted to FTA no later than the first business    
  day of the quarter, FTA will then award grants no later than the last business day 
  of the quarter. In FY 04, FTA awarded State Planning and Research Program          
  grants in an average of 9 days of submission of a completer application.           
Appeals:                                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Renewals:                                                                            
  Grants may be amended to add additional funds.                                     
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  The matching requirements vary. Funds obligated for State or metropolitan          
  planning are granted as an 80 percent Federal, 20 percent local ratio. In          
  addition, current year funds can be transferred from the Federal Highway           
  Administration to form State Consolidated Planning Grants.                         
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Reports:                                                                             
  (1) Progress reports; (2) Financial report upon completion of the project; and (3) 
  Final technical study report (if applicable).                                      
Audits:                                                                              
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June         
  27, 2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,       
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in        
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that   
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal         
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted   
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                             
Records:                                                                             
  Project sponsor is required to retain intact, for 3 years following submission of  
  the final financial status report pending resolution of audit findings, all project
  contract documents, financial records, and supporting documents.                   
Account Identification:                                                              
  69-1137-0-1-401; 69-8350-0-7-401.                                                  
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Grants) FY 07 $19,991,000; FY 08 est $15,467,000; and est FY 09                   
  $20,875,000.                                                                       
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  $45,000 to $1,000,000 plus per State based on a statutory formula.                 
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  Block grant funds to States for projects they identify to accomplish statewide     
  planning and research.                                                             
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

                                                                                11-08
  Federal Register Notice, "FTA Fiscal Year 2008 Apportionments, Allocations,
  and Program Information", published annually, contains the State apportionment
  in Table 2. For fiscal year 2008, the publication date was January 28, 2008. For
  other fiscal years, contact the FTA Regional Office or consult the FTA web site
  to obtain the publication dates. The FTA website is:
  http://www.fta.dot.gov/funding/grants_financing_38.html.
Regional or Local Office:
  See Appendix IV of the Catalog for a listing of Federal Transit Administration
  regional offices.
Headquarters Office:
  FTA Office of Planning and Environment (TPE-10), Candace Noonan,
  Telephone: (202) 366-1648, Federal Transit Administration, Department of
  Transportation, 1200 New Jersey Ave., S.E., Washington, DC 20590.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.fta.dot.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  20.205, Highway Planning and Construction; 20.500, Federal Transit_Capital
  Investment Grants; 20.502, Federal Transit Grants for University Research and
  Training; 20.507, Federal Transit_Formula Grants; 20.505, Federal
  Transit_Metropolitan Planning Grants; 20.514, Public Transportation Research.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  California did a study of performance measures for small and rural transit.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
20.516 JOB ACCESS-REVERSE COMMUTE
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF
  TRANSPORTATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient & Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy
  for users (SAFETEA-LU), Title 49, Chapter 53, Section 5316, 49 U.S.C 5317.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide grants to local governments, nonprofit organizations, and designated
  recipients of Federal transit funding to develop transportation services to connect
  welfare recipients and low- income persons to employment and support services.
   Job Access grants will be to finance planning, capital and operating cost of
  projects. The Reverse Commute grants will assist in funding the costs associated
  with adding reverse commute bus, train, carpool or service from urban areas,
  urban, rural and other suburban locations to suburban work places.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The funds are to be used for delivery of services as well as to administer, plan
  and provide technical. assistane for projects.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State and local government agencies, nonprofit agencies, and transit providers.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Low income individuals; individuals traveling to suburban work places.
Credentials/Documentation:
  The applications submitted were derived from a locally developed, coordinated
  public transit-human services transportation plan and developed through a
  process that included representatives of public, private and nonprofit
  transportation and human services providers and participation by the public.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Applicants must coordinate with: the State or local agencies that administer the
  State program funded under part A of Title IV of the Social Security Act, public
  housing agencies, the community to be served, and other stakeholders. The
  program is covered under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal
  Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the
  single point of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the
  State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected
  the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  The project must be a product of the local coordinated public transit human
  services coordinated plan, competitively selected by the area's recipient, and
  included in the State Transportation Improvement Program prior to grant award.
  Recipients will submit applications electronically to the appropriate FTA
  regional office. The FTA regional offices are listed in Appendix IV of the
  Catalog. Recipients will then distribute funding directly to the subrecipients.
  After the recipient has competitively selected projects to be funded, the recipient
  may officially request that FTA allow subrecipients that are eligible to apply
  directly to FTA for Section 5307 funds be allowed to apply directly to FTA for
  JARC funds awarded. Notification of the grant program may also be found at
  http://www.grants.gov.
Award Procedure:
  An FTA grant award obligating Federal funds is reflected in a grant agreement.
  To access funds, the recipient must execute the grant agreement.
Deadlines:
                                                                                   731
