  The JARC Program is a formula program. This information is published in the          
  Annual Apportionment Federal Register. Funds are normally available for three        
  years. Applications can be submitted throughout the year.                            
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  In the past Fiscal years, FTA approved JARC grants on an average of 42 days

  following submission of a complete application.                                      
Appeals:

  Not applicable.                                                                      
Renewals:                                                                              
  Grants may be amended to add additional funds.                                       
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  An 80 percent cost share for capital projects, and a 50 percent match for            
  operating projects is required. Certain other Federal funds may be use for this      
  match, such as the Department of Health and Hman Services temporary                  
  assistance to needy families. the Department of Labor Welfare-to-work, and the       
  Federal Highway's State Planning and Research funds. Sixty percent funding           
  shall be distributed among designated recipients in urbanized areas with a           
  population of 200,000 or more in the ratio that the number of eligible low-          
  income individuals and welfare recipients in each such urbanized area bears to       
  the number of eligible low-income individuals and welfare recipients in all such     
  urbanized areas. Twenty percent of the funds shall be distributed among the          
  States in the ratio that the number of eligible low-income individuals and           
  welfare recipients in urbanized areas with a population of less than 200,000 in      
  each State bear to the number of eligible low-income individuals and welfare         
  recipients in urbanized areas with a population of less than 200, 000 in all         
  States. Twenty percent of the funds shall be distributed among the States in the     
  ratio that the number of eligible low-income individuals and welfare recipients      
  in other than urbanized areas in each State bears to the number of eligible low-     
  income individuals and welfare recipients in other than urbanized areas in all       
  States.                                                                              
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Generally 1 year. Can be up to 4 years.                                              
Reports:                                                                               
  (1) Progress reports; (2) Financial status reports, submitted quarterly for          
  recipients in urbanized areas over 200,000 population, and annually for other        
  recipients and states; (3) Detailed annual reports of project results for program    
  evaluation purposes.                                                                 
Audits:                                                                                
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of State        
  and Local Governments and Nonprofit Organizations," nonfederal entities              
  (including universities) that expend $500,000 or more in a year in Federal           
  awards shall have a single or program specific audit conducted for that year.        
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are      
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year with certain exceptions as      
  stated in OMB Circular No. A-133.                                                    
Records:                                                                               
  Recipient is required to retain intact, for 3 years following submission of the      
  final expenditure report, pending resolution of audit findings, all grant products,  
  financial records, and supporting documents.                                         
Account Identification:                                                                
  69-1125-0-1-401; 69-8350-0-7-401.                                                    
Obligations:                                                                           
  FY 07 $59,714,258; FY 08 est $238,961,230; and FY 09 est $283,102,480.               
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  $23,550 to $1,500,000. Average: $356,000.                                            
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  Job Access and reverse Commute services in 45 States and the District of             
  Columbia have been funded through more than 450 grants and grant                     
  amendments. JARC services in Fiscal Year 2006 proviided access to                    
  approximately 43.4 million jobs, including 21.2 million low-wage jobs and            
  provided approximately 22.9 million one-way trips.                                   
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  FTA Circular 9050.1, Job Access and Reverse Commute Program Guidelines               
  and Application Instructions, updated May 1, 2007.                                   
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  See Catalog Appendix for listing of Federal Transit Administration regional          
  offices.                                                                             
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Office of Program Managemnet, Federal Transit Administration, Department of          
  Transportation, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE, East Building-Fourth                     
  FloorWashington, DC 20590. Telephone: (202) 366- 2053 . David Schneider              
  telephone (202)493-0175..                                                            
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.fta.dot.gov/funding/grants/grants_financing_3550.html                     
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  20.505; 20.507; 20.509; 20.513; 20.515.                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  Projects funded include Extended service hours, new demand, responsive               
  service, fixed route extensions, emergency childcare transportation, guaranteed      
  ride home programs, additional bus lines; mobility management projects.              


732                                                                              11-08

CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  49 U.S.C. 5316(f) of SAFETEA-LU states factors that must be fair and
  equitable. Proposals must also meet legal and administrative requirements,
  available on the FTA web site at http://www.fta.dot.gov.
20.518 CAPITAL AND TRAINING ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
FOR OVER-THE-ROAD BUS ACCESSIBILITY
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF
  TRANSPORTATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  The program is authorized under Section 3038 of the Transportation Equity Act
  for the 21st Century (TEA-21), Public Law 105-85 as amended by the Safe,
  Accountable, Flexible, Efficient, Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users
  (SAFETEA-LU), Public Law 109-059, August 10, 2005.
OBJECTIVES:
  To make funds available to private operators of over-the-road buses to finance
  the incremental capital and training costs of complying with requirements of the
  Department of Transportation's Over-the-Road Bus Accessibility regulation,
  "Transportation for Individuals with Disabilities" (49 CFR Part 37, Subpart H).
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Program funds may be used to finance the incremental capital and training costs
  of complying with DOT's Over- the-Road Bus Accessibility regulation. Capital
  projects eligible for funding include adding wheelchair lifts and other
  accessibility components to new vehicle purchases, and purchasing lifts to
  retrofit existing vehicles. Eligible training costs include training in proper
  operation and maintenance of equipment, boarding assistance, and securement,
  handling and storage of mobility devices, and sensitivity training.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Private operators of over-the-road buses that provide intercity fixed route bus
  service, and other providers, including operators of over-the-road buses of local
  fixed-route service, commuter service, and charter or tour service.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Persons with disabilities.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs are determined in accordance with program guidance in an annual Federal
  Register Notice soliciting aplications.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None required. The program is not covered by E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs."
Application Procedure:
  FTA conducts a national solicitation for applications annually. Grant awards will
  be made on a competitive basis. Applications may be submitted through
  Grants.Gov. Paper applications are also accepted. An original and two copies
  must be submitted to the appropriate FTA Regional Office. The over-the-road
  bus operators should submit their applications to the office in the region in
  which its headquarters is located. The application should provide information on
  all items for which the applicant is requesting funding. Applications for FY
  07/08 funding were due on November 13, 2007. A solicitation was issued in FY
  07 for FY 07/08 funding.
Award Procedure:
  The announcement of awards is published in a Federal Register Notice.
  Successful applicants file a grant application with FTA. An FTA grant award
  obligating Federal funds is reflected in a grant agreement. To access funds, the
  recipient must execute the grant agreement.
Deadlines:
  As prescribed in the annual Federal Register Notice soliciting applications. The
  deadline for FY 07/08 applications was November 13, 2007. Following
  competitive selection, successful applicants may apply for grant funding
  throughout the fiscal year.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Project selections are announced approximately six months following the
  application deadline for competitive consideration.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Federal funds will be provided for up to 90 percent of the eligible costs.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Funds are available for obligation to grantees for 3 fiscal years. Any funds not
  obligated by FTA by the end of this period will be added to the succeeding year's
  program allocation.
Reports:
  Final progress report and Financial Status Report upon closing the grant, and
  annual reports for grants remaining open the end of each Federal fiscal year.
  Documentation is required for payment.
