Audits:                                                                                 
  As requested by FTA.                                                                  
Records:                                                                                
  Recipient is required to retain intact, for 3 years following submission of the       
  final expenditure report, pending resolution of audit findings, all grant products,   
  financial records, and supporting documents.                                          
Account Identification:                                                                 
  69-1129-0-1-401; 69-8350-0-7-401.                                                     
Obligations:                                                                            
  (Grants) FY 07 $6,856,849; FY 08 est $10,908,290; and FY 09 est $13,358,290.          
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                              
  $20,000 to $ 180,000. Average: $20,000.                                               
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                
  During FY 06, 91 companies were provided funding to make 212 vehicles                 
  wheelchair accessible and provide training.                                           
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                
  Federal Register Notices, published annually. Current guidance contained in           
  Federal Register Notice dated February 2, 2006, "Over-the-Road Bus                    
  Accessibility Program Grants".                                                        
Regional or Local Office:                                                               
  See Catalog Appendix for listing of Federal Transit Administration regional           
  offices.                                                                              
Headquarters Office:                                                                    
  Federal Transit Administration, Office of Program Management, Office of               
  Transit Programs, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, S.E., Washington DC 20590.                  
  Blenda Younger, Program Manager. Telephone: (202) 366-2053.                           
Web Site Address:                                                                       
  http://www.fta.dot.gov.                                                               
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                       
  None.                                                                                 
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                            
  Operators of intercity fixed-route services received $29,460 for the incremental      
  capital cost of making vehicles wheelchair accessible, and $1,800 for training as     
  required by the American Disability Act.

                                                                                        
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                       
  Current guidance contained in Federal Register Notice dated February 2, 2006,         
  "Over-the-Road Bus Accessibility Program Grants".                                     
                                                                                        
20.519 CLEAN FUELS                                                                      
                                                                                        
   (Clean Fuels)

                                                                                        
                                                                                        
FEDERAL AGENCY:

                                                                                        
  FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF

                                                                                        
  TRANSPORTATION                                                                        
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                          
  49 U.S.C 5308.

                                                                                        
OBJECTIVES:

                                                                                        
  To assist in financing the acquisition of clean fuel buses and related facilities for

                                                                                        
  agencies providing public transportation and operating in an urbanized area

                                                                                        
  designated as a non-attainment or maintenance area for ozone or carbon

                                                                                        
  monoxide.

                                                                                        
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:

                                                                                        
  Project Grants (Discretionary).

                                                                                        
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

  Eligible projects include the purchase or lease of clean fuel buses, the              
                                                                                        
  construction or lease of clean fuel buses or electrical recharging facilities and

                                                                                        
  related equipment for such buses, and construction or improvement of public

                                                                                        
  transportation facilities to accommodate clean fuel buses. A clean fuel bus is a

                                                                                        
  passenger vehicle used to provide public transportation that is powered by

                                                                                        
  compressed natural gas, liquefied natural gas, biodiesel fuels, batteries, alcohol-

                                                                                        
  based fuels, hybrid electric systems, fuel cells, clean diesel (to the extent allowed

                                                                                        
  by law), or another low or zero emissions technology. Buses that employ

                                                                                        
  lightweight composite primary structure may also be eligible.

                                                                                        
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                  
  Public agencies, including States; municipalities and other subdivisions of

                                                                                        
  States; public agencies and instrumentalities of one or more States; and public       
  corporations, boards, and commissions established under State law. Applicant          
  must have legal, financial, and technical capacity to carry out proposed project      
  and maintain facilities and equipment purchased with Federal assistance.              
  Applicant must also operate in an urbanized area designated as a non-attainment       
  or maintenance area for ozone or carbon monoxide. If the urbanized area is less       
  than 200,000 in population, the State in which the area is located will act as the    
  recipient.                                                                            
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                
  The general public, both users and non-users of public transportation.                
Credentials/Documentation:                                                              
  Resolution by an authorized public body approving the filing for an application;      
  projects must be included in an urbanized area's transportation improvement           
  program (TIP), and in the Statewide transportation improvement program (STIP)         
  approved by FTA and FHWA. Information must be provided on labor

                                                                                  11-08 
  agreements and relocation planning; environmental impact; legal capacity;
  coordinated regional planning; and compliance with certifications and
  assurances as compiled in FTA's Annual List of Certifications and Assurances.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), an environmental
  impact assessment and/or environmental impact statement may be required. An
  applicant should consult the office or official designated as the single point of
  contact in his or her State for more information on the process to be followed in
  applying for assistance under this program. This program is excluded from
  coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Project funds may be allocated by Congress for specific projects. When
  applicable, a Notice of Funding Availability is published to announce the
  availability of discretionary funds and application process. The notification and
  application are also available at http://www.grants.gov.
Award Procedure:
  An FTA grant award obligating Federal funds is reflected in a grant agreement.
  Grants are awarded electronically using FTA's Transportation Electronic Award
  Management (TEAM) system, http://ftateamweb.fta.dot.gov/fta-flash2b.html. In
  order to access this system, a user name and password are needed and can be
  obtained by contacting the regional offices. Once the funds are reserved in
  TEAM and the project information has been reviewed and approved by
  Headquarters, the recipient must execute the grant agreement to access the
  funds.
Deadlines:
  Applications may be submitted throughout the fiscal year. Funds are available
  for obligation for three fiscal years including the year of appropriation.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  It is a goal of the Federal Transit Administration to obligate grants within an
  average of 36 days of the submission of a complete grant application.
Appeals:
  None. Award recipients are chosen by Congress during the appropriations
  process.
Renewals:
  Funds are appropriated annually. Grants may be amended to add newly available
  funds for a continuing project.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Funding is apportioned on a discretionary basis. The Federal share is not to
  exceed 80 percent of the net project cost. The Federal share may be 90 percent
  for the cost of vehicle-related equipment or facilities attributable to compliance
  with the American with Disabilities Act and the Clear Air Act.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Terms and conditions are delineated in the grant agreement.
Reports:
  (1) Progress reports, (2) Financial status reports, (3) construction reports where
  applicable.
Audits:
  Pursuant to requirements established by the Office of Management and Budget
  (OMB), nonfederal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in Federal
  awards shall have a single or program specific audit conducted for that year.
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year with certain exceptions as
  determined by the OMB. The Federal Transit Administration may also conduct
  its own audits.
Records:
  Recipient is required to retain intact, for 3 years following submission of final
  expenditure report, pending resolution of audit findings, all project contract
  documents, financial records, and supporting documents.
Account Identification:
  69-8350-0-7-401.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $15,920,000; FY 08 est $46,538,470; and FY 09 est
  $60,663,470 not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $160,000 - $5,250,000. Average $1,112,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  The program has provided funding for clean fuel projects as directed by
  Congress.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Please visit the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) website or contact the
  appropriate FTA Region office for more information. See Federal Register/
  Vol.70, No. 229/ Wednesday, November 30, 2005/ Notices.
Regional or Local Office:
  See list of region contacts listed in Appendix IV.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Transportation, Federal Transit Administration-Office of Program
  Management, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, S.E., Washington, DC 20590.
  Telephone: (202)366-2053 Contact: Kimberly Sledge, E-mail:
  kimberly.sledge@fta.dot.gov.
Web Site Address:
                                                                                  733
