  www.fta.dot.gov.                                                                     
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  None.                                                                                
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  Projects receiving funding under the program include the replacement of              
  existing diesel buses with hybrid diesel-electric and other alternative fuel buses,  
  as well as the construction of facilities to support vehicles utilizing clean fuel   
  technology.                                                                          
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  Per Congressional designation.                                                       
                                                                                       
20.521 NEW FREEDOM PROGRAM                                                             
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF                                        
  TRANSPORTATION                                                                       
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Safe, Accountable, Efficient, Flexible Transportation Equity Act: A legacy for       
  Users (SAFETEA-LU), Title 49, Chapter 53, Section 5317; 49 U.S.C. 5317.              
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To provide grants to recipients for new public transportation services and public    
  transportation alternatives beyond those required by the Americans with              
  Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12101 et. Seq.) that assists individuals with    
  disabilities with transportation, including transportation to and from jobs and      
  employment support services.                                                         
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Formula Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  To be eligible, a project must either be a new public transportation service or a    
  public transportation alternative beyond those required by the ADA and the           
  project must assist individuals with disabilities with transportation, including     
  transportation to and from jobs and employment support services. Capital and         
  operating expenses for projects that meet the purpose of the statute are eligible to 
  be funded. The recipient may use up to 10 percent of apportioned funds for           
  administration, planning, and technical assistance.                                  
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  An eligible recipient is defined as a recipient to be designated by the Governor     
  of the State in consultation with local officials and local public transportation    
  providers in urbanized areas above 200,000 in population. In urbanized areas         
  between 50,000 and 200,000 in population and nonurbanized (rural) areas, the         
  State is the eligible recipient. Public agencies, nonprofit agencies, public         
  transportation providers, private transportation providers, and human services       
  transportation providers are eligible to be subrecipients under the New Freedom      
  program.                                                                             
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Individuals with Disabilities.                                                       
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Resolution by an authorized public body approving the filing for an application;     
  projects must be included in the local coordinated public transit human service      
  transportation plan, an urbanized area's transportation improvement program          
  (TIP), and in the Statewide transportation improvement program (STIP)                
  approved by FTA and FHWA. Information must be provided on legal capacity;            
  coordinated regional planning; and compliance with certifications and                
  assurances as compiled in FTA's Annual List of Certifications and Assurances.        
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  Pursuant to Section 102 (2) (C) of the National Environmental Policy Act of          
  1969 (Public Law 91-190), 42 U.S.C. 4332 (2) (c), Executive Order 11514 (34

                                                                                       
  FR 4247) of March 4, 1970, an environmental impact assessment and/or                 
  environmental impact statement may be required for construction projects.            
  Applicants must coordinate with: the State or local agencies that administer the     
  State program funded under part A of Title IV of the Social Security Act, public     
  housing agencies, the community to be served and stakeholders. The program is        
  covered under E.O. 12372, Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs. An           
  applicant should consult the office or official designated as the single point of    
  contact in his or her State for more information on the process to be followed in    
  applying for assistance under this program.                                          
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  The project must be a product of the local coordinated public transit human          
  services coordinated plan, competitively selected by the areas recipient, and        
  included in the State Transportation Improvement Program prior to grant award.       
  Recipients will submit applications electronically to the appropriate Federal        
  Transit Administration, FTA, regional office. The FTA regional offices are listed    
  in Appendix IV of the Catalog. Recipients will then distribute funding directly      
  to the subrecipients. After the recipient has competitively selected projects to be  
  funded, the recipient may officially request that FTA allow subrecipients that are   
  eligible to apply directly to FTA for Section 5307 funds be allowed to apply         
  directly to FTA for New Freedom funds awarded. Notification of the grant             
  program may also be found at http://www.grants.gov.                                  
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  An FTA New Freedom grant is awarded and funds are obligated in an electronic         


734                                                                              11-08

  grant agreement. The recipient must execute the grant agreement, and access
  FTA's electronic funds management system; the funds management system
  allows the grantee to drawdown funds after invoices are received. The grantee
  directs funds to subrecipients.
Deadlines:
  Available formula funds are published in the Annual Apportionment Federal
  Register. Funds are available for obligation for three fiscal years including the
  year of appropriation.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  It is a goal of the Federal Transit Administration to obligate grants within 36
  days of the submission of a complete grant application.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Funds are appropriated annually. Grants may be amended to add newly available
  funds for a continuing project.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Funding is apportioned on a formula basis. 60 percent of funds are apportioned
  for areas of 200,000 or more in population in the ratio that the number of
  individuals with disabilities in each such urbanized area bears to the number of
  individuals with disabilities in all such areas; 20 percent is apportioned among
  the states in the ratio that the number of individuals with disabilities in
  urbanized areas with a population of less than 200,000 in each State bears to the
  number of individuals with disabilities in areas with a population of less than
  200,000 in all States; 20 percent is apportioned among the states in the ratio that
  the number of individuals with disabilities in other than urbanized areas of each
  State bears to the number of individuals with disabilities in other than urbanized
  areas in all States. 49 U.S.C. 5317 (c) (1)(A-C). The population factor used in
  the formula consists of the number of disabled individuals, over the age of five,
  in each area divided by the total population of disabled individuals over the age
  of five in all areas in the corresponding population category. The population
  factor is multiplied by the total funding available by category to determine an
  area's allocation. The Federal share is not to exceed 80 percent of the net project
  cost for capital expenses, or 50 percent of net operating costs of the projects for
  operating assistance. The Federal share may be 90 percent for the cost of
  vehicle-related equipment attributable to compliance with the American with
  Disabilities Act and the Clear Air Act. Up to 10 percent of a recipient's New
  Freedom allocation may be used for planning, administration, and technical
  assistance. Funds used for these purposes may be funded at 100 percent federal
  share.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Terms and conditions are delineated in the grant agreement. Funds are awarded
  using an electronic financial management system as funds are expended and
  invoices received.
Reports:
  (1) Annual Progress reports, (2) Annual Financial status reports, (3) construction
  reports where applicable, and (4) Annual report to the National Transit Database
  (NTD).
Audits:
  Pursuant to requirements established by the Office of Management and Budget
  (OMB), nonfederal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in Federal
  awards shall have a single or program specific audit conducted for that year.
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year with certain exceptions as
  determined by the OMB. The Federal Transit Administration may also conduct
  its own audits.
Records:
  Recipient is required to retain intact, for 3 years following submission of final
  expenditure report, pending resolution of audit findings, all project contract
  documents, financial records, and supporting documents.
Account Identification:
  69-8350-0-7-401.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $9,323,016; FY 08 $139,230,000; and FY 09 $164,161,310 est
  not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Project funding varies based on competitive selection process at State or
  urbanized area level. Urbanized area apportionments range from $45 K to $5.7
  M. State apportionments for small urbanized areas range from $35 K to $1.6 M
  and for rural areas from $48K to $1 M.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  None.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  (1) Federal Transit Administration Transit Program Changes, Authorized
  Funding Levels and Implementation of the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient
  Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users, 70 Federal Register 71950,
  71968 (November 30, 2005). (2) FTA Circular 9045.1, New Freedom Program
  Guidelines and Application Instructions, enacted May 1, 2008.
Regional or Local Office:
  Region 1, Transportation Systems Center, Kendall Square, 55 Broadway, Suite
