FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION,                                     
  DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION                                                        
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Highway Safety Act of 1966, as amended, 23 U.S.C. 401 et seq.                       
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To provide a coordinated national highway safety program to reduce traffic          
  crashes, deaths, injuries, and property damage.                                     
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Formula Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Formula grant funds may be used for problems identified within the nine             
  national priority program areas of Alcohol and other Drug Countermeasures,          
  Police Traffic Services, Occupant Protection, Traffic Records, Emergency            
  Medical Services, Motorcycle Safety, Pedestrian/Bicycle Safety, Speed Control       
  and Roadway Safety. Other program areas identified by a State as constituting a     
  highway safety problem in that State, e.g., pupil transportation safety programs,   
  may be eligible for Federal funding, as encompassing a major highway safety         
  problem in the State and for which effective countermeasures have been              
  identified. The law provides that at least 40 percent of these Federal funds        
  apportioned to a State for any fiscal year will be expended by the political        
  subdivisions of such State.                                                         
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  States, federally recognized Indian tribes, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico,  
  American Samoa, Guam, Northern Marianas, and the Virgin Islands.                    
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Political subdivisions, through the State Highway Safety Agencies.                  
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Performance plan approved by the agency is required and Highway Safety plan,        
  certification statement, and Program Cost Summary. Costs will be determined         
  in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments.           
  State Plan due date is September 1 for the formula grant program.                   
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  NHTSA Regional Administrators and FHWA Division Administrators review               
  each State's Performance Plan and Highway Safety Plan. This program is              
  eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal        
  Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the     
  single point of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the 
  State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected 
  the program for review. This program is exempt from the standard application        
  forms required by the Governmentwide Common Grant Rule for State, Local,            
  and Indian Tribal Governments. Assistance from NHTSA and FHWA is                    
  continuously available to participants in this program.                             
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Submission of Highway Safety Plan covering State and community highway              
  safety activities for the year to NHTSA regional offices.                           
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Awards are made by NHTSA Regional Administrators.                                   
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Highway Safety Plans must be submitted by September 1 each year.                    
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Two months.                                                                         
Appeals:                                                                              
  Appeals of decisions by NHTSA Regional Administrators are to the NHTSA              
  Associate Administrator for Regional Operations and Program Delivery.               
Renewals:                                                                             
  Each year, States submit Performance Plans and Highway Safety Plans as part of      
  continuing formula grant program.                                                   
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  75 percent apportioned on total resident population; 25 percent apportioned         
  against public road mileage in States. Federal share shall not exceed 80 percent    
  or applicable sliding scale.                                                        
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Federal share is reimbursed on claims submitted in vouchers covering costs          
  incurred. All participants have converted to the Electronic Transfer of funds       
  method. Funds placed under obligation are available until expended.                 
Reports:

  States are required to submit annual program reports to the Federal Highway

  Administration and to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.           
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of State

                                                                                      
  and Local Governments and Nonprofit Organizations," nonfederal entities that

                                                                                      
  expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more within the State's fiscal year

                                                                                      
  shall have an audit made for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than

                                                                                      
  $500,000 within the State's fiscal year shall have an audit made in accordance

                                                                                      
  with Circular No. A-133, or in accordance with Federal laws and regulations

                                                                                      
  governing the programs in which they participate.

                                                                                      
Records:

                                                                                      
  Records relating to the program shall be retained for a period not less than 3

                                                                                      
  years from the date of submission of final financial report.

                                                                                      


736                                                                             11-08

Account Identification:
  69-8020-0-7-401; 69-8019-0-7-401.
Obligations:
  (Formula Grants)FY 07 $219,870,000; FY 08 est $225,000,000; and FY 09 est.
  $235,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $549,000 to $21,000,000. Average: $3,200,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  The federally assisted State and Community Highway Safety programs have
  contributed to reducing and, subsequently, leveling out the sharp rise in traffic
  deaths in the period from 1966 to 2006. The fatality rate per hundred million
  passenger miles has been reduced from 5.5 in 1966 to 1.12 in 2006. This has
  been achieved in spite of more cars, more drivers, and more miles traveled on
  our Nation's highways.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  23 CFR Chapter II, State and Community Highway Safety Grant Program;
  Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices; Handbook of Highway Safety
  Design and Operating Practice, available from Government Printing Office,
  Washington, DC 20402.
Regional or Local Office:
  See Appendix IV of the Catalog for a listing of National Highway Traffic Safety
  Administration regional office addresses.
Headquarters Office:
  Marlene Markison, Associate Administrator for Regional Operations and
  Program Delivery, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 1200 New
  Jersey Avenue, S.E., Washington, DC 20590. Telephone: (202) 366-2121.
  Byron Dover, Transportation Specialist, Safety Technology Division, Office of
  Highway Safety, Federal Highway Administration, Washington, DC 20590.
  Telephone: (202) 366-2161 (use the same number for FTS).
Web Site Address:
  http://www.nhtsa.whatsup/fedassist/index.html.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  20.205, Highway Planning and Construction.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Selective traffic enforcement programs, both at the State and local level - Funds
  were used for equipment (police vehicles, communications, speed detection
  devices, breath testing devices, etc.), training of police personnel, and overtime
  salaries. Upgrading of Emergency Medical Services (EMS) at the local level:
  Funds were used for training of emergency medical personnel improved
  ambulance medical equipment, survey of EMS needs, and salaries for statewide
  EMS coordinators. Programs to reduce alcohol-related crashes: Funds were
  used for studies to identify the magnitude of the problem, personnel services
  (police, investigators, and court personnel), equipment (breath testing devices,
  radar equipment), and training of involved personnel to detect the drinking
  driver and to use testing equipment. Traffic records system improvement
  projects: Funds were used for survey of needs and requirements, system designs,
  system implementation, ADP equipment and supplies, traffic records, personnel,
  and training. Occupant Protection programs: Funds were used to develop and
  distribute public information and education materials relating to the use of safety
  belts and infant/child safety seats, and the implementation of infant/child safety
  seat loaner programs. Networks of public and private agencies and groups were
  developed and assisted regarding programs to increase awareness of the benefits
  of occupant protection, and to increase overall use. Activities that directly
  support the identification of highway hazards and the scheduling and
  implementation of roadway improvements (construction, operational or
  otherwise) to improve their safety: Funds were used for personal services,
  training and equipment to establish accident data systems; conduct engineering
  studies and analyses of high accident locations; conduct workshops in street
  design and capacity and work zone safety; inventory skid resistance of payment
  surfaces; and provide traffic engineering assistance to local jurisdictions.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The Federal/State relationship for the highway safety grant program is a
  partnership. Each State is given flexibility in the administration of its own
  highway safety program. Federal funds are obligated in support of a highway
  safety program based on problems identified by the State. States have latitude in
  determining projects upon which they spend their Federal monies.
20.601 ALCOHOL TRAFFIC SAFETY AND DRUNK
DRIVING PREVENTION INCENTIVE GRANTS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient, Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for
  Users (SAFETEA-LU) of 2004, Section 2007, Public Law 109-59, as amended,
  23 U.S.C. 410.
OBJECTIVES:
  To encourage States to adopt effective programs to reduce crashes resulting from
  persons driving while under the influence of alcohol and other controlled
