  substances.                                                                          
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Incentive grant funds are available to States to implement effective programs to     
  reduce drunk and drugged driving, in compliance with established criteria.           
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  States, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the               
  Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. States are provided with two           
  alternative means to qualify for a Section 410 grant. Under the first alternative,   
  States may qualify as a low fatality rate State if they have an alcohol-related      
  fatality rate of 0.5 or less per 100 million vehicle miles traveled (VMT). Under     
  the second alternative, States may qualify as a programmatic State if they           
  demonstrate that they meet three of eight grant criteria for fiscal year 2006, four  
  of eight grant criteria for fiscal year 2007, and five of eight grant criteria for   
  fiscal years 2008 and 2009. Qualifying under both alternatives would not entitle     
  the State to receive additional grant funds. SAFETEA-LU directs that States          
  with low alcohol-related fatality rates, based on the agency's Fatality Analysis     
  Reporting System (FARS), be awarded grants without the need to satisfy any of        
  these programmatic criteria. There is also an additional Section 410 grant           
  available to assist the 10 States with the highest impaired driving related          
  fatalities as determined by the most recent FARS data.                               
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  State Highway Safety Agency.                                                         
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  State submits certification and application that it meets eligibility requirements;  
  after being informed by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration           
  (NHTSA) that it is eligible for a grant, State submits to the agency a plan that     
  describes the programs the State will implement using the funds.                     
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  Low fatality rate States: Prior to the start of the application period (on or about  
  June 1 of that fiscal year), the agency will inform States that qualify for a grant  
  based on low fatality rates. These States will not be required to submit an          
  application demonstrating compliance with the programmatic requirements.             
  They will, however, be required to submit information that identifies how the        
  grant funds will be used in accordance with the requirements of SAFETEA-LU.          
  If the agency experiences a delay in making fatality rate information available,     
  all States should prepare and submit information demonstrating compliance with       
  the required number of programmatic criteria. A State should not assume              
  qualification for Section 410 funding as a low fatality rate State until the         
  information is made available by the agency. Programmatic states: To qualify         
  for a Section 410 grant in FY 2006 based on programmatic criteria, SAFETEA-          
  LU requires a State to demonstrate compliance with three of the following eight      
  criteria: A high visibility impaired driving enforcement program; a prosecution      
  and adjudication outreach program; a BAC testing program; a high-risk drivers        
  program; an alcohol rehabilitation or DWI court program; an underage drinking        
  prevention program; an administrative driver's license suspension or revocation      
  system; and a self-sustaining impaired driving prevention program. States will       
  be required to meet four of eight criteria to qualify in FY 2007 and five of eight   
  criteria to qualify in each subsequent fiscal year. High Fatality Rate States: Any   
  State that is determined to have one of the ten highest fatality rates will be       
  eligible for a separate grant under Section 410. The agency will calculate the       
  alcohol fatality rate per 100 million vehicle miles traveled (VMT) for each State    
  using the most recent final FARS data available prior to the date of the grant. A    
  qualifying high fatality rate State would be required to submit a plan that details  
  expenditures for the funding provided. NHTSA Regional Administrator                  
  coordinates qualification process with Office of Injury Control Operations and       
  Resources. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372,                   
  "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult          
  the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or her State 
  for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying    
  for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.                    
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  State submits certification and application that it meets eligibility requirements;  
  after being informed that it is eligible for a grant, State submits to the agency a  
  plan that describes the programs the State will implement using the funds.           
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  The State submits information that reflects its eligibility for the award based on   
  the criteria for which it is applying. NHTSA staff review the information to         
  determine the eligibility of the State. If the State is deemed eligible to receive an
  award, it will be notified by the Region and will also receive an official letter of 
  award from the NHTSA Administrator. The release of grant funds shall be              
  subject to the availability of funds for that fiscal year.                           
                                                                                       
Deadlines:

  Applications would be required to be submitted to the agency no later than           
  August 1 of the fiscal year in which the States are applying for grant funds.        
                                                                                       
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

  Applicant should receive a response, from the agency, between 30 to 90 days.

Appeals:                                                                               
  Not applicable.



                                                                                  11-08
Renewals:
  States are eligible for up to 4 years under the 410 program. Certification and
  plan must be approved each year.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Authorizes $515 million for Fiscal Years 2006-2009. No more than 15 percent
  of Section 410 funding in a fiscal year shall be made available for High Fatality
  Rate Grants. High Fatality Rate Grants will be allocated to States that qualify on
  the basis of the Section 402 apportionment, except that no State may receive
  more than 30 percent of the funds available for this subsection. After a
  deduction for High Fatality Rate Grants, available Section 410 funds will be
  allocated to States that qualify under the Low Fatality Rate or Programmatic
  Criteria on the basis of the Section 402 apportionment. The Federal share of
  programs funded under this section shall not exceed 75 percent in the first and
  second years in which a State receives a grant, and 50 percent in the third and
  fourth years in which a State receives a grant. The Secretary may transfer any
  amounts remaining available under Sections 405, 408, and 410 to the amounts
  made available under any other of these programs to ensure, to the maximum
  extent possible, that each State receives the maximum incentive funding for
  which it is eligible. This program has MOE requirements; see funding agency
  for further details.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Federal share is reimbursed on claims submitted in vouchers covering costs
  incurred. All participants have converted to the Electronic Transfer of Funds
  method. Funds placed in obligation are available until expended.
Reports:
  Annual program plan for next year's funding must include a progress report on
  the prior year's program and accomplishments.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Records relating to the program shall be retained for a period not less than 3
  years from the date of submission of final financial report.
Account Identification:
  69-8020-0-7-401.
Obligations:
  (Incentive Grants) FY 07 $124,500,000; FY 08 est $131,000,000; and FY 09 est
  $139,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $258,000 to $9,770,407.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Implementation of impaired driving activities found in the Programmatic
  Criteria section, as well as costs for high visibility enforcement; the costs of
  training and equipment for law enforcement; the costs of advertising and
  educational campaigns that publicize checkpoints, increase law enforcement
  efforts and target impaired drivers under 34 years of age; the costs of a State
  impaired operator information system, and the costs of vehicle or license plate
  impoundment.In FY 2007, 50 states and Puerto Rico received grants.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  23 CFR Part 1313.
Regional or Local Office:
  See Appendix IV of the Catalog for a listing of National Highway Traffic Safety
  Administration regional office addresses.
Headquarters Office:
  Marlene Markison, Associate Administrator for Regional Operations and
  Program Delivery, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 1200 New
  Jersey Avenue, SE, Washington, DC 20590. Telephone: (202) 366-2121.
Web Site Address:
  www.nhtsa.dot.gov
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  20.600, State and Community Highway Safety.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Driving while intoxicated (DWI) prevention programs with special emphasis on
  law enforcement of drunk driving laws and public awareness, advertising and
  education about such laws; police training in a variety of drunk and impaired
  driving issues; and the procurement of technology and equipment, including
  video equipment, and passive alcohol sensors.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  States must meet criteria established by statute and regulation including, for
  example, prompt license suspension for drunk driving, mandatory sentencing for
  repeat drunk driving offenders and self-sustaining drunk driving prevention
  programs.
20.602 OCCUPANT PROTECTION
                                                                                  737
