      (Section 405)                                                                 
                                                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     
  NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION,                                   
  DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION                                                      
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                      
  Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient, Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for   
  Users (SAFETEA-LU) of 2005, Part 1345, Section 2004, Public Law 109-59, as        
  amended, 23 U.S.C. 402.                                                           
OBJECTIVES:                                                                         
  To encourage States to adopt effective programs to reduce highway deaths and      
  injuries resulting from individuals riding unrestrained or improperly restrained  
  in motor vehicles.                                                                
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                
  Project Grants.                                                                   
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                          
  Incentive grant funds are available to States to implement and enforce occupant   
  protection programs, in compliance with established criteria.                     
Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, American Samoa, Guam, Northern     
  Marianas, Virgin Islands, and the Bureau of Indian Affairs.                       
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                            
  State Highway Safety agencies.                                                    
Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  A State submits certification and application that it meets eligibility           
  requirements; after being informed by NHTSA that it is eligible for a grant, the  
  State submits to the agency a plan that describes the programs the State will     
  implement using the funds.                                                        
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  NHTSA Regional Administrator coordinates qualification process with the           
  Office of Injury Control Operations and Resources. This program is eligible for   
  coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs."        
  An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the single point 
  of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the State      
  requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected the 
  program for review.                                                               
Application Procedure:                                                              
  Certifications, signed by the Governor's Representative for Highway Safety, are   
  due no later than February 15 of each fiscal year to the appropriate NHTSA        
  Regional Administrator. To apply for grant funds in a fiscal year, a State must   
  submit the certification required by Federal Register, Vol. 7, No. 218, Monday,   
  November 14, 2006, signed by the Governor's Representative for Highway

  Safety, to the appropriate NHTSA Regional Administrator.                          
Award Procedure:

  A State submits certification that it meets eligibility requirements. After being

                                                                                    
  informed by NHTSA that it is eligible for a grant, the State submits to the       
  agency a plan that describes the programs the State will implement using the      
  funds. Federal share is reimbursed on claims submitted in vouchers covering       
  costs incurred. All participants have converted to the Electronic Transfer of     
  Funds method. Funds placed in obligation are available until expended. NHTSA      
  notifies the Governor in a letter that the State has met the requirements for a   
  Section 405 grant. The letter also describes the amount of the grant award.       
Deadlines:                                                                          
  Application proposals and certifications are due by February 15 of each year.     
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  Program plan and funds should be obligated within 30 days of receipt of award     
  letter.                                                                           
Appeals:                                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                   
Renewals:                                                                           
  States are eligible for up to 6 years under this program. They must be certified  
  and a plan must be submitted each year.                                           
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  Under the 405 program, basic grant funding is up to 100 percent of their Section  
  402 apportionment for FY 2003. The Federal share shall not exceed 75 percent      
  in the first and second years, 50 percent in the third and fourth years, and 25   
  percent in the fifth and subsequent years.                                        
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  The Federal share is reimbursed on claims submitted in vouchers covering costs    
  incurred. All participants have converted to the electronic transfer of funds     
  method of payment. Funds placed in obligation are available until expended.       
Reports:                                                                            
  Annual program plan for next year's funding must include a progress report on     
  the prior year's program and accomplishments.                                     
Audits:                                                                             
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of State     
  and Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations," nonfederal entities          
  (including universities) that expend $500,000 or more in a year in Federal        
  awards shall have a single or program-specific audit conducted for that year.     
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are   


738                                                                           11-08

  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, with certain exceptions as
  stated in OMB Circular No. A-133. For direct procurement contracts, audits
  will be conducted in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulations.
Records:
  Project sponsor shall retain records for 3 years following submission of a final
  expenditure report and other project deliverables, all project contract documents,
  financial records, and supporting documents pending resolution of audit
  findings.
Account Identification:
  69-8020-0-7-401.
Obligations:
  Grants FY 07 $25,000,000; est FY 08 $25,000,000; and FY 09 est $25,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  FY 07 Range: $79,937 - $2,989,991.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY 2007, 36 States, DC, Puerto Rico and 2 Territories received Section 405
  grants.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient, Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for
  Users (SAFETEA-LU) of 2005, Part 1345, Section 2004, Public Law 109-59, as
  amended, 23 U.S.C. 402.
Regional or Local Office:
  See Appendix IV of the Catalog for the addresses Regional Offices of the
  National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.
Headquarters Office:
  Judy Hammond, Office of Traffic Injury Control, Office of Regional Operations
  and Program Delivery (NTI-200), NHTSA, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, S.E.,
  Washington, DC, 20590, by telephone at (202) 366-2121 or by e-mail at
  judy.hammond@dot.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://nhtsa.dot.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Funds can only be used to implement and enforce occupant protection programs.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  States must meet 4 out of 6 criteria established by statute and regulation
  including safety belt use law for all passengers, primary safety belt use law,
  minimum fine or penalty points, statewide special traffic enforcement programs,
  child passenger protection education program, and child passenger protection
  law.
20.605 SAFETY INCENTIVES TO PREVENT OPERATION
OF MOTOR VEHICLES BY INTOXICATED PERSONS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Highway Safety Act of 1998, as amended, 23 U.S.C. 163.
OBJECTIVES:
  To encourage States to establish an 0.08 percent blood alcohol concentration as
  the legal limit for drunk driving.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Incentive grant funds are available to States to implement effective programs to
  reduce drunk and drugged driving, in compliance with established criteria.
Applicant Eligibility:
  States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, American Samoa, Guam, Northern
  Marianas, Virgin Islands, and the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  State Highway Safety agencies.
Credentials/Documentation:
  A State submits certification and application that it meets eligibility
  requirements; after being informed by NHTSA that it is eligible for a grant, the
  State submits to the agency a plan that describes the programs the State will
  implement using the funds.
Preapplication Coordination:
  NHTSA Regional Administrator coordinates qualification process with the
  Office of Injury Control Operations and Resources. Program is eligible for
  coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs."
  An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the single point
  of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the State
  requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected the
  program for review.
Application Procedure:
  The State submits certification and application that it meets eligibility
  requirements. After being informed that it is eligible, the State submits to the
  agency a plan that describes the program it will implement using the funds.
