20.608 MINIMUM PENALTIES FOR REPEAT OFFENDERS                                           
FOR DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED                                                           
                                                                                        
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                         
  NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION,                                       
  DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION                                                          
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                          
  Highway Safety Act of 1998 as amended, 23 U.S.C. 164.                                 
OBJECTIVES:                                                                             
  To encourage States to enact and enforce Repeat Intoxicated Offender laws.            
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                    
  Project Grants.                                                                       
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                              
  Funds transferred from NHTSA must be used for alcohol-impaired driving                
  countermeasures or enforcement of driving while intoxicated (DWI), driving            
  under the influence DUI) and other related laws. A state may elect to use all or

  part of its transferred funds for activities eligible under Section 152 Hazard

                                                                                        
  Elimination program.

Applicant Eligibility:                                                                  
  States, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico.

Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                
  State Highway Safety agencies.                                                        
Credentials/Documentation:                                                              
  If a State has not enacted and is not enforcing a Repeat Intoxicated Driver Law,      
  then a state meets eligibility requirements. After being informed by NHTSA that       
  it is eligible for a grant, the state submits to the agency a plan that describes the 
  programs the state will implement using the funds.                                    
Preapplication Coordination:                                                            
  NHTSA Regional Administrators coordinate the qualification process with the           
  Office of Injury Control Operations and Resources. This program is eligible for       
  coverage under Executive Order 12372, Intergovernmental Review of Federal             
  Programs.                                                                             
Application Procedure:                                                                  
  If a state has not enacted and is not enforcing a Repeat Intoxicated driver Law,      
  then a state meets eligibility requirements. After being informed that it is          
  eligible, the state submits to the agency a plan that describes the program it will   
  implement using the funds.                                                            
Award Procedure:                                                                        
  Awards will be made by the NHTSA Regional Administrator.                              
Deadlines:                                                                              
  States must have a compliant law by September 30 each year.                           
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                     
  Applicant should receive a response from the agency between 30 to 90 days.            
Appeals:                                                                                
  Not applicable.                                                                       
Renewals:                                                                               
  States are eligible for funding for the penalty for up to four years.                 
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                      
  If a State has not enacted or is not enforcing a repeat intoxicated offender law by   
  September 30 of each fiscal year, it will receive a transfer in the amount of three-  
  percent of the funds apportioned to the State under section 402.                      
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                  
  The Federal share is reimbursed on claims submitted in vouchers covering costs        
  incurred. All participants have converted to the electronic transfer of funds         
  method of payment. Funds placed in obligation are available until expended.           
Reports:                                                                                
  Annual report required under the section 402 State and Community Highway              
  Safety formula grant program must include a progress report on the prior year's       
  program and accomplishments.                                                          
Audits:                                                                                 
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, Audits of State          
  and Local governments, and Nonprofit Organizations, nonfederal entities that          
  expend $500,000 or more in a year in Federal awards shall have a single or            
  program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend       
  less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt for Federal audit              
  requirements for that year. For direct procurement contracts, audit will be           
  conducted in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulation.                      
Records:                                                                                
  The project sponsor shall retain records for 3 years following submission of a        
  final expenditure report and other project deliverables.                              
Account Identification:                                                                 
  69-8020-0-7-401.                                                                      
Obligations:                                                                            
  (Grants) FY 07 $124,501,824; FY 08 and FY 09 est not available.                       
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

                                                                                        
  $2,299,000 to $47,500,000. Average: $7,000,000.

                                                                                        
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

                                                                                        
  In FY 2007, 11 States and Puerto Rico received Section 164 transfer funds.

REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                
  23 CFR 1270.                                                                          
Regional or Local Office:                                                               


740                                                                               11-08

  See Appendix IV of the Catalog for the addresses of the Regional Offices of
  NHTSA.
Headquarters Office:
  Marlene Markison, Associate Administrator for Regional Operations and
  Program Delivery, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department
  of Transportation, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, S.E., Washington DC 20590.
  Telephone: (202) 366-2121.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.nhtsa/whatsup/fedassist/index.html.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  None.
20.609 SAFETY BELT PERFORMANCE GRANTS
   (Section 406)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  STATE TRAFFIC SAFETY INFORMATION SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT
  GRANTS, DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient, Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for
  Users (SAFETEA-LU) of 2005, Section 406, Public Law, as amended, 23
  U.S.C. 408.
OBJECTIVES:
  Increase safety belt use by encouraging States to enact and enforce primary
  safety belt laws. A primary safety belt law permits law enforcement officers to
  stop and cite motorists for failing to wear safety belts without requiring that
  some other motor vehicle violation first be observed.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  A state may use grant funds for any safety purpose under Title 23 or for any
  project that corrects or improves a hazardous roadway location or feature or
  proactively addresses highway safety problems. However, at least $1 million of
  amounts received by States must be obligated for behavioral highway safety
  activities.
Applicant Eligibility:
  The 50 States, District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, American Samoa, the
  Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam and the Virgin Islands
  are eligible to apply for a grant.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  State Highway Safety Agencies.
Credentials/Documentation:
  States that apply as either New Primary Law States or Pre-2003 Primary Law
  States must submit a certification that their primary safety belt law is in effect
  and is being enforced, and must also provide a citation where a copy of the law
  may be obtained for review. States that apply as Safety Belt Performance States
  must submit the result of a statewide safety belt observational survey for each of
  the two calendar years preceding the fiscal year of the grant application, along
  with certifications that the surveys were conducted in conformance with
  NHTSA's Uniform Criteria for State Observational Surveys of Seat Belt Use (23
  CFR Part 1340).
Preapplication Coordination:
  Program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, Intergovernmental Review of
  Federal Programs. An applicant should consult the office or official designated
  as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information on the
  process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State
  has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  A State is eligible for a grant if it did not have a conforming primary safety belt
  law for all passenger motor vehicles in effect on or before December 31, 2002,
  and either: Enacts for the first time after December 31, 2002, and has in effect
  and is enforcing a conforming primary safety belt law for all passenger motor
  vehicles (States meeting this criterion are called New Primary Law States); or,
  After December 31, 2005, has a State safety belt use rate of 85 percent or more
  for each of the 2 consecutive calendar years immediately preceding the fiscal
  year of the grant (States meeting this criterion are called Safety Belt Performance
  States). A State that meets either of the above two criteria will receive a one-
  time grant equal to 475 percent of the State's apportionment under Section 402
  for fiscal year 2003. If a State does not meet either of the above two criteria, and
  if funds remain after grants have been awarded to all States that do meet either
  of the two criteria by July 1 each year, the State will qualify for a one-time grant
  equal to 200 percent of its apportionment under Section 402 for fiscal year 2003
  if it has in effect and is enforcing a conforming primary safety belt law for all
  passenger motor vehicles that was in effect before January 1, 2003 (States in this
  category are called Pre-2003 Primary Law States). States that are applying as
