  either New Primary Law States or Pre-2003 Primary Law States must submit the       
  required certification and citation (see Credentials / Documentation above) by     
  July 1 of the year of the grant application. States applying as Safety Belt        
  Performance States must submit the survey result and related certification for     
  each of the two consecutive calendar years preceding the year of the grant         
  application by March 1 of the calendar year immediately following the year in      
  which the survey was conducted.                                                    
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  NHTSA will review the information contained in each State's application for        
  compliance with Section 406 and notify qualifying States in writing of grant       
  awards.                                                                            
Deadlines:                                                                           
  States applying as either New Primary Law States or Pre-2003 Primary Law           
  States must submit the required certification and citation by July 1 of the year of
  the grant application. States applying as Safety Belt Performance States must      
  submit the safety belt survey result and related certification by March 1 of the   
  year immediately following the year in which the survey was conducted.             
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Applicant should receive a response, from the agency, between 30 to 90 days.       
Appeals:                                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Renewals:                                                                            
  Not applicable. These are one-time grants.                                         
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  The Federal share payable for grants under Section 406 is 100 percent. Federal     
  share is reimbursed on claims submitted in vouchers covering costs incurred. All   
  participants have converted to the Electronic Transfer of Funds method. Funds      
  placed in obligation are available until expended.                                 
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Federal share is reimbursed on claims submitted in vouchers covering costs         
  incurred. All participants have converted to the Electronic Transfer of Funds

  method. Funds placed in obligation are available until expended.

Reports:                                                                             
  The Annual Report required under the Section 402 State and Community               
  Highway Safety formula grant program must include a progress report on the

                                                                                     
  prior year's Section 406 program for behavioral highway safety activities.

Audits:

  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of State      
                                                                                     
  and Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations," nonfederal entities

                                                                                     
  (including universities) that expend $500,000 or more in a year in Federal

                                                                                     
  awards shall have a single or program-specific audit conducted for that year.

                                                                                     
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are

                                                                                     
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, with certain exceptions as

                                                                                     
  Stated in OMB Circular No. A-133. For direct procurement contracts, audits will

                                                                                     
  be conducted in accordance with Federal Acquisition Regulations.

                                                                                     
Records:

                                                                                     
  Project sponsor shall retain records for 3 years following submission of a final

                                                                                     
  expenditure report and other project deliverables, all project contract documents,

                                                                                     
  financial records, and supporting documents pending resolution of audit

                                                                                     
  findings.

                                                                                     
Account Identification:

                                                                                     
  69-8020-0-7-401.

Obligations:                                                                         
  FY 07 $124,500,000; FY 08 est 124,500,000; and FY 09 est 124,500,000.              
                                                                                     
  Note: SAFETEA-LU authorizes $124.5 million for each of the three fiscal years

                                                                                     
  from FY 07 to FY 09.

                                                                                     
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  FY 07 - FY 09 Range: $300,000 - $35,000,000.

                                                                                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

                                                                                     
  In FY 2007, 18 States, District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and 4 territories

                                                                                     
  received Section 406 grants.

                                                                                     
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

  Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient, Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for    
  Users (SAFETEA-LU) of 2005, Public Law 109-59; 23 U.S.C. 408.                      
                                                                                     
Regional or Local Office:

  See Appendix IV of the Catalog for the addresses of the Regional Offices of the    
  National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.                                    
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  For program issues, Tami Levitas, Office of Regional Operations and Program        
  Delivery, (NTI-200), NHTSA, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, S.E., Washington,              
  D.C., 20590, by telephone at (202) 366-2121 or by E-mail at                        
  tami.levitas@dot.gov.                                                              
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://nhtsa.dot.gov.                                                              
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  None.                                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  Behavioral highway safety activities to which Section 406 funds are likely to be   
  applied include but are not limited to highly visible enforcement of impaired      
  driving and safety belt violations; paid and earned media campaigns to support     
                                                                                     


                                                                                11-08
  stepped up enforcement mobilizations and crackdowns; motorcycle rider
  education; pedestrian safety; speed management; DWI courts; and, technical
  training of traffic law enforcement officers, prosecutors and state highway safety
  officials.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Applications from States attempting to qualify as New Primary Law States or
  Pre-2003 Primary Law States will be reviewed to determine if the State is
  enforcing a primary safety belt use law that applies to all passenger motor
  vehicles. Applications from States attempting to qualify as Safety Belt
  Performance States will be reviewed to determine if the State' safety belt use rate
  was at or above 85% during each of the two consecutive calendar years
  immediately preceding the year of the grant application. To qualify for a first-
  year grant, a State must demonstrate that it has an established multi-disciplinary
  highway safety data and traffic records coordinating committee; a developed
  multi-year safety data and traffic records strategic plan, approved by the
  coordinating committee and containing performance-based measures; certify
  that the State has adopted and is using the model data elements determined by
  the Secretary to be useful, or certify that grant funds will be used toward
  adopting and using the most elements practicable. To qualify for a subsequent-
  year grant, a State must certify that an assessment or audit of the State traffic
  records system has been conducted or updated within the preceding 5 years;
  certify that the coordinating committee continues to operate and supports the
  multi-year plan; specify how the grant funds and any other funds of the State
  will support the multi-year strategic plan; demonstrate measurable progress
  toward achieving the goals and objectives identified in the multi-year plan; and
  submit a report, showing measurable progress in the implementation of the
  multi-year plan. The 50 States, District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin
  Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana
  Islands and Indian tribes through the Bureau of Indian Affairs are eligible to
  apply for a grant.
20.610 STATE TRAFFIC SAFETY INFORMATION SYSTEM
IMPROVEMENT GRANTS
   (Section 408)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION (NHTSA),
  DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient, Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for
  Users (SAFETEA-LU) of 2005, Section 406, 23 U.S.C. 408.
OBJECTIVES:
  Encourage States to adopt and implement effective programs to improve the
  timeliness, accuracy, completeness, uniformity, integration and accessibility of
  State data; to evaluate the effectiveness of efforts to make such improvements; to
  link these State data systems, including traffic records, with other data systems
  within the State; and to improve the compatibility of the State data systems with
  national data systems and data systems of other States to enhance the ability to
  observe and analyze national trends in crash occurrences, rates, outcomes, and
  circumstances.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  A State may use grant funds only to implement data improvement programs.
Applicant Eligibility:
  To qualify for a first-year grant, a State must demonstrate that it has an
  established multi-disciplinary highway safety data and traffic records
  coordinating committee; a developed multi-year safety data and traffic records
  strategic plan, approved by the coordinating committee and containing
  performance-based measures; certify that the State has adopted and is using the
  model data elements determined by the Secretary to be useful, or certify that
  grant funds will be used toward adopting and using the most elements
  practicable. To qualify for a subsequent-year grant, a State must certify that an
  assessment or audit of the State traffic records system has been conducted or
  updated within the preceding 5 years; certify that the coordinating committee
  continues to operate and supports the multi-year plan; specify how the grant
  funds and any other funds of the State will support the multi-year strategic plan;
  demonstrate measurable progress toward achieving the goals and objectives
  identified in the multi-year plan; and submit a report, showing measurable
  progress in the implementation of the multi-year plan. The 50 States, District of
  Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the
  Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands and Indian tribes through the
  Bureau of Indian Affairs are eligible to apply for a grant.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  State Highway Safety Agencies.
Credentials/Documentation:
  A State would submit information unique to each criterion for which it chooses
  to demonstrate compliance. After being informed by NHTSA that it is eligible
  for a grant, the state submits to the agency a plan that describes the programs the
                                                                                    741
