  state will implement using these funds.                                             
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  Program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review        
  of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official            
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information  
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the 
  State has selected the program for review.                                          
Application Procedure:                                                                
  To apply for a first fiscal year grant, a State must submit the certification       
  required by Appendix 1, signed by the Governor's Representative for Safety, to      
  the appropriate NHTSA Administrator no later than June 15 of the fiscal year.       
  To apply for a successive fiscal year grant, a State must submit the certification  
  required by Appendix 2, signed by the Governor's Representative for Highway         
  Safety, to the appropriate NHTSA Administrator no later than June 15 of the         
  fiscal year.                                                                        
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  NHTSA will review each State's application for compliance with section 408          
  and notify qualifying States in writing of grant awards. SAFETEA-LU provides        
  that the amount of each first fiscal year grant shall be the higher of $300,000 or  
  an amount determined by multiplying the amount appropriated to carry out the        
  section 408 Program for that fiscal year by the ratio that the funds appropriated   
  to the State under Section 402 for FY 2003 bears to the funds apportioned to all    
  eligible States under Section 402 for FY 2003. Each State that qualifies for a      
  successive fiscal year shall be eligible to receive the higher of $500,000 or an    
  amount determined by multiplying the amount appropriated to carry out the           
  Section 408 Program for that fiscal year by the ratio that the funds apportioned    
  to all eligible States under Section 402 for FY 2003.                               
Deadlines:                                                                            
  States must submit their certifications by June 15 (each year).                     
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Applicant should receive a response, from the agency, between 30 to 90 days.        
Appeals:                                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Renewals:                                                                             
  States are eligible for this grant for up to four years.

Formula and Matching Requirements:

  SAFETEA-LU provides that the amount of each first fiscal year grant shall be

                                                                                      
  the higher of $300,000 or an amount determined by multiplying the amount            
  appropriated to carry out the Section 408 Program for that fiscal year by the ratio 
  that the funds appropriated to the State under Section 402 for FY 2003 bears to

  the funds apportioned to all eligible States under Section 402 for FY 2003. Each    
  States that qualifies for a successive fiscal year shall be eligible to receive the 
  higher of $500,000 or an amount determined by multiplying the amount                
  appropriated to carry out the Section 408 Program for that fiscal year by the ratio 
  that the funds apportioned the State under Section 402 for FY 2003.                 
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Federal share is reimbursed on claims submitted in vouchers covering costs          
  incurred. All participants have converted to the Electronic Transfer of Funds       
  method. Funds placed in obligation are available until expended.                    
Reports:                                                                              
  The Annual Report required under Section 402 State and Community Highway            
  Safety formula grant program must include a progress report on the prior year's     
  program and accomplishments.                                                        
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of State       
  and Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations," nonfederal entities            
  (including universities) that expend $500,000 or more in a year in Federal          
  awards shall have a single or program-specific audit conducted for that year.       
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are     
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, with certain exceptions as    
  Stated in OMB Circular No. A-133. For direct procurement contracts, audits will     
  be conducted in accordance with Federal Acquisition Regulations.                    
Records:                                                                              
  Project sponsor shall retain records for 3 years following submission of a final    
  expenditure report and other project deliverables, all project contract documents,  
  financial records, and supporting documents pending resolution of audit             
  findings.                                                                           
Account Identification:                                                               
  69-0605-0-1-401.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Grants) FY 07 $34,500,000; FY 08 est $34,500,000; and FY 09 est                    
  $34,500,000.                                                                        
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  FY 07-FY 09 Range: $300,000 - $2,255,376.                                           
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  In FY 2007, 49 States, the District of Columbia and 4 Territories received          
  Section 408 grants.                                                                 
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient, Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for     
  Users (SAFETEA-LU) of 2005, Public Law 109-59; 23 U.S.C. 408.                       


742                                                                             11-08

Regional or Local Office:
  See Appendix IV of the Catalog for the addresses of the Regional Offices of the
  National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.
Headquarters Office:
  For program issues, Jack Oates, Office of Regional Operations and Program
  Delivery, NHTSA, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE, Washington, DC 20590, by
  telephone at (202) 366-2121 or by E-mail at jack.oates@dot.gov. For legal
  issues, Dana Sade, Office of Chief Counsel, NCC-113, NHTSA, 1200 New
  Jersey Avenue, SE, Washington, DC 20590, by telephone (202) 366-1834 or by
  E-ail at dana.sade@dot.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://webster.nhtsa.dot.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  The State Traffic Safety Information System Improvement Grants provide
  funding to improvement of State data systems, the evaluation of efforts to make
  improvements, link State data systems, including traffic records with other data
  systems that contain medical, roadway, and economic data; and improve the
  compatibility and interoperability of the States data systems with national traffic
  safety data systems and data systems of other States and enhance NHTSA's
  ability to observe and analyze national trends in crash occurrence, rates, and
  circumstances.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  SAFETEA-LU provides that a State may qualify for a grant under the section
  408 by demonstrating that it has an established Traffic Records Coordinating
  Committee (TRCC), a multi-year safety data and traffic records strategic plan
  approved by the TRCC, certify that the State has adopted and is using the Model
  Minimum Uniform Crash Criteria (MMUCC) or certify that it will use grant
  funds toward adopting and using the most elements practicable. To qualify in
  subsequent years, a State must certify that an assessment or audit of the State
  traffic records system has been conducted in the past five years, certify that the
  TRCC continues to support and operate the multi-year plan and submit a report
  showing measurable progress in the implementation of the multi-year plan.
20.611 INCENTIVE GRANT PROGRAM TO PROHIBIT
RACIAL PROFILING
   (Section 1906)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION (NHTSA),
  DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient, Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for
  Users (SAFETEA-LU) of 2005, Section 1906, Pub. L.109-59, as amended, 23
  U.S.C. 402.
OBJECTIVES:
  Encourage States to enact and enforce laws that prohibit the use of racial
  profiling in the enforcement of traffic laws on Federal-aid highways, and to
  maintain and allow public inspection of statistics on motor vehicle stops.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Incentive grant funds are available to States to enact and enforce laws to prohibit
  racial profiling, in compliance with the following established criteria. Law States
  may use Section 1906 grant funds for: collecting and maintaining data on traffic
  stops; evaluating the results of such data; and developing and implementing
  programs to reduce the occurrence of racial profiling, including programs to
  train law enforcement officers. Assurances States may use Section 1906 grant
  funds for: funding activities to prohibit racial profiling in the enforcement of
  State laws regulating the use of Federal-aid highways; collecting, maintaining
  and providing public access to traffic stop data; evaluating the results of such
  data; and developing and implementing programs to reduce the occurrence of
  racial profiling, including programs to train law enforcement officers. A State
  may not receive a grant for more than two fiscal years if it is qualifying for the
  grant as an Assurances State.
Applicant Eligibility:
  This Grant is available to the 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico,
  the Virgin Islands, Guam American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the
  Northern Mariana Islands.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  State Highway Safety agencies.
Credentials/Documentation:
  A State submits certification that it meets eligibility requirements; after being
  informed by NHTSA that it is eligible for a grant, the State submits to the
  agency a plan that describes the programs the State will implement using the
  funds.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review
