  of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official           
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information 
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.                                         
Application Procedure:                                                               
  All certifications must be submitted by July 1. To apply for grant funds in a      
  fiscal year, a Law State must submit the certification required by Federal         
  Register, Vol. 71, No. 22, Thursday, February 2, 2006, Appendix 1 and an           
  Assurances State must submit the certification required by Federal Register, Vol.  
  71, No. 22, Thursday, February 2, 2006, Appendix 2, signed by the Governor's       
  Representative for Highway Safety, to the appropriate NHTSA Regional               
  Administrator.                                                                     
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  A State submits certification that it meets eligibility requirements; after being  
  informed by NHTSA that it is eligible for a grant, the State submits to the        
  agency a plan that describes the programs the State will implement using the       
  funds. Federal share is reimbursed on claims submitted in vouchers covering        
  costs incurred. All participants have converted to the Electronic Transfer of      
  Funds method. Funds placed in obligation are available until expended.             
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Applications must be received by the appropriate NHTSA Regional Office on or       
  before July 1 of the fiscal year for which a State seeks a grant.                  
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Applicant should receive a response, from the agency, between 30 to 90 days.       
Appeals:                                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Renewals:                                                                            
  Certifications must be submitted each year; however, a State may not receive a

  grant for more than two fiscal years if it is qualifying for the grant as an

  Assurances State.

                                                                                     
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  As stated in the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient, Transportation Equity     
  Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU) of 2005, Section 1906, Pub. L.109-59,

  as amended, 23 U.S.C. 402; States qualifying for a grant will receive an amount    
  determined by multiplying the amount available for awards under the Section        
  1906 Program in a fiscal year by the ratio that the funds apportioned to the State 
  under Section 402 for that fiscal year bears to the funds apportioned to all       
  eligible States under Section 402 for that fiscal year, up to a maximum award of   
  5 percent of the amount made available to carry out Section 1906 in that fiscal    
  year. The Federal share of programs funded under this section shall not exceed     
  80 percent.                                                                        
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Federal share is reimbursed on claims submitted in vouchers covering costs         
  incurred. All participants have converted to the Electronic Transfer of Funds      
  method. Funds placed in obligation are available until expended.                   
Reports:                                                                             
  The Annual Report required under the Section 402 State and Community               
  Highway Safety formula grant program must include a progress report on the         
  prior year's program and accomplishments.                                          
Audits:                                                                              
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133, "Audits of State     
  and Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations," nonfederal entities           
  (including universities) that expend $500,000 or more in a year in Federal         
  awards shall have a single or program-specific audit conducted for that year.      
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are    
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, with certain exceptions as   
  Stated in OMB Circular No. A-133. For direct procurement contracts, audits will    
  be conducted in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulations.               
Records:                                                                             
  Project sponsor shall retain records for 3 years following submission of a final   
  expenditure report and other project deliverables, all project contract documents, 
  financial records, and supporting documents pending resolution of audit            
  findings.                                                                          
Account Identification:                                                              
  69-8020-0-7-401.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Grants) FY 07 $8,613,632; FY 08 est $7,500,000; and FY 09 $7,500,000.             
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  FY 07 Average award $538,352.                                                      
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  In FY 2007, 16 States received Section 1906 grants.                                
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient, Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for    
  Users (SAFETEA-LU) of 2005, Section 1906, Pub. L.109-59, as amended, 23            
  U.S.C. 402. Federal Register, Vol. 71, No. 22, Thursday, February 2, 2006.         
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  See Appendix IV of the Catalog for the addresses of the Regional Offices of the    
  National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.                                    
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  For program issues, Tamara Webster, Office of Regional Operations and              


                                                                                11-08
  Program Delivery (NTI- 200), NHTSA, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, S.E.,
  Washington, DC 20590, by telephone at (202) 366-0543 or by E-mail at
  tamara.webster@dot.gov. For legal issues, Dana Sade, Office of Chief Counsel,
  NCC-113, NHTSA, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, S.E., Washington, DC 20590, by
  telephone at (202) 366-1834 or by email at dana.sade@nhtsa.dot.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://webster.nhtsa.dot.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  The Incentive Grant Program to Prohibit Racial Profiling provides funding for
  the following projects: collecting, maintaining and providing public access to
  traffic stop data; evaluating the results of such data; and developing and
  implementing programs to reduce the occurrence of racial profiling, including
  programs to train law enforcement officers.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  SAFETEA-LU provides that a State may qualify for a grant under the Section
  1906 Program in one of two ways: (a) by enacting and enforcing a law that
  prohibits the use of racial profiling in the enforcement of State laws regulating
  the use of Federal-aid highways and maintaining and allowing public inspection
  of statistical information on the race and ethnicity of the driver and any
  passengers for each such motor vehicle stop made by a law enforcement officer
  on a Federal-aid highway (a Law State); or (b) by providing satisfactory
  assurances to the Secretary that the State is undertaking activities to prohibit
  racial profiling and to maintain and provide public access to data on the race and
  ethnicity of the driver and passengers for each motor vehicle stop made by a law
  enforcement officer on a Federal-aid highway (an Assurances State).
20.612 INCENTIVE GRANT PROGRAM TO INCREASE
MOTORCYCLIST SAFETY
   (Section 2010)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient, Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for
  Users (SAFETEA-LU) of 2005, Section 2010, Public Law 109-59.
OBJECTIVES:
  Encourage States to adopt and implement effective programs to reduce the
  number of single and multi-vehicle crashes involving motorcyclists.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  As specified in SAFETEA-LU, a State may use section 2010 grant funds only
  for motorcyclist safety training and motorcyclist awareness programs, including:
   (1) Improvements to motorcyclist safety training curricula; (2) Improvements in
  program delivery of motorcycle training to both urban and rural areas (including
  procurement or repair of practice motorcycles; instructional materials; mobile
  training units; and leasing or purchasing facilities for closed-course motorcycle
  skill training); (3) Measures designed to increase the recruitment or retention of
  motorcyclist safety training instructors; and (4) Public awareness, public service
  announcements, and other outreach programs to enhance driver awareness of
  motorcyclists. The State may sub-allocate funds to non-profit organizations
  incorporated in the State.
Applicant Eligibility:
  This Grant is available to the 50 states, the District of Columbia, and Puerto
  Rico.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  State Highway Safety Agencies.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Eligibility for the section 2010 grants is based on 6 specified grant criteria. To
  qualify for a section 2010 grant for the first fiscal year the State seeks to qualify,
  it must demonstrate compliance with at least 1 of the 6 grant criteria. To qualify
  for a section 2010 grant for the second and subsequent fiscal years that it seeks
  to qualify, a State must demonstrate compliance with at least 2 of the 6 grant
  criteria. A State would submit information unique to each criterion for which it
  chooses to demonstrate compliance.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review
  of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  To apply for grant funds in a fiscal year, a State must submit a completed
  application to the appropriate NHTSA Regional Administrator by the due date.
  NHTSA will review each State's application for compliance with section 2010
  and notify qualifying States in writing of grant awards. Upon initial review of
                                                                                       743
