  the application, the proposed procedures would allow NHTSA to request                
  additional information from the State prior to making a determination of award       
  in order to clarify compliance with the statutory criteria and grant application     
  procedures. SAFETEA-LU specifies that the amount of a grant made to a State          
  for a fiscal year under this grant program may not be less than $100,000 and         
  may not exceed 25 percent of the amount apportioned to the State for fiscal year     
  2003 under section 402 of title 23, United States Code. However, the release of      
  the full grant amounts under section 2010 is subject to the availability of          
  funding for each fiscal year.                                                        
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  NHTSA will review each State's application for compliance with section 2010          
  and notify qualifying States in writing of grant awards. Once the State is           
  notified, it will submit to the agency a plan that describes the programs the State  
  will implement using the funds. Federal share is reimbursed on claims submitted      
  in vouchers covering costs incurred. All participants have converted to the          
  Electronic Transfer of Funds method. Funds placed in obligation are available        
  until expended.                                                                      
Deadlines:                                                                             
  Applications must be received by the appropriate NHTSA Regional Office on or

  before August 1 of the fiscal year for which a State seeks a grant.                  
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

  Applicant should receive a response, from the agency, between 30 to 90 days.         
Appeals:                                                                               
  Not applicable.

Renewals:                                                                              
  Certifications must be submitted each year showing that changes have not been        
  made to any information related to the criterion or criteria previously satisfied. A 
  State may certify each subsequent year of the grant program.                         
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  As stated in the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient, Transportation Equity       
  Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU) of 2005, Section 2010, Pub. L.109-59,           
  States qualifying for a grant will receive at least $100,000 and may not exceed      
  25 percent of the amount apportioned to the State for fiscal year 2003 under         
  section 402 of title 23, United States Code. The Federal share of programs           
  funded under this section will be 100 percent.                                       
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Federal share is reimbursed on claims submitted in vouchers covering costs           
  incurred. All participants have converted to the Electronic Transfer of Funds        
  method. Funds placed in obligation are available until expended.                     
Reports:                                                                               
  The Annual Report required under the Section 402 State and Community                 
  Highway Safety formula grant program must include a progress report on the           
  prior year's program and accomplishments.                                            
Audits:                                                                                
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of State        
  and Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations," nonfederal entities             
  (including universities) that expend $500,000 or more in a year in Federal           
  awards shall have a single or program-specific audit conducted for that year.        
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are      
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, with certain exceptions as     
  Stated in OMB Circular No. A-133. For direct procurement contracts, audits will      
  be conducted in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulations.                 
Records:                                                                               
  Project sponsor shall retain records for 3 years following submission of a final     
  expenditure report and other project deliverables, all project contract documents,   
  financial records, and supporting documents pending resolution of audit              
  findings.                                                                            
Account Identification:                                                                
  69-8020-0-7-401.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  FY 07 $6,000,000; FY 08 $6,000,000; and FY 09 est $7,000,000.                        
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  FY 07 Range: $100,000 - $365,542; Average: $120,193.                                 
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  IN FY 2007, 47 States and Puerto Rico received Section 2010 grants.                  
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient, Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for

                                                                                       
  Users (SAFETEA-LU) of 2005, Section 2010, Public Law 109-59. Regulations

                                                                                       
  are forthcoming and will be published in the 23 CFR Part 1350.

                                                                                       
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  See Appendix IV of the Catalog for the addresses of the Regional Offices of the

                                                                                       
  National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.

                                                                                       
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  For program issues, Tami Levitas, Office of Regional Operations and Program

                                                                                       
  Delivery (NTI-200), NHTSA, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, S.E., Washington, DC,

                                                                                       
  20590, by telephone at (202) 366-2121 or by E-mail at tami.levitas@dot.gov.

                                                                                       
Web Site Address:

                                                                                       
  http://webster.nhtsa.dot.gov.

                                                                                       
RELATED PROGRAMS:

  None.                                                                                
                                                                                       


744                                                                              11-08

EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  As specified in SAFETEA-LU, a State may use section 2010 grants to fund
  motorcycle rider training and motorcyclists awareness.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  SAFETEA-LU provides that a State may qualify for a grant under the Section
  2010 by satisfying one or more of six criteria. States must satisfy one criterion in
  the first year and two criteria in the subsequent years. In sum, the criteria are:
  (1) offering effective motorcycle rider training courses, (2) developing an
  effective motorcyclists awareness program, (3) showing a reduction in of
  fatalities and crashes involving motorcycles, (4) implementing an impaired
  driving program, (5) showing a reduction of fatalities and accidents involving
  impaired motorcyclists, and/or (6) showing that all fees collected from
  motorcyclists are used for motorcyclists safety training and motorcycle
  awareness. A State must submit documents unique to each criterion the State
  wishes to qualify showing how the State demonstrates compliance with the
  criterion. The Notice of Proposed Rulemaking will be published April 2006.
  There will be a 30 day comment period. The Final Rule is scheduled to be
  published in June 2006.
20.613 CHILD SAFETY AND CHILD BOOSTER SEATS
INCENTIVE GRANTS
   (Section 2011)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient, Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for
  Users (SAFETEA-LU) of 2005, Section 2011, Public Law 109-59, as amended,
  23 U.S.C. 402.
OBJECTIVES:
  To encourage States to enact and enforce a child restraint law that requires
  children up to 65 pounds and under 8 years of age to be properly retrained in a
  child restraint, unless they are 4' 9' tall.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  No more than 50 percent of the grant a State receives in a fiscal year shall be
  used to fund programs for purchasing and distributing child safety seats and
  restraints to low income families. The remaining amounts can be used to carry
  out child safety seat and child restraint program, including the following:
  enforcement of child restraint laws; training child passenger safety professionals,
  police officers, fire and emergency medical personnel, educators and parents
  concerning child safety seats and child restraints; and educating the public
  concerning the proper use and installation of child safety seats and child
  restraints.
Applicant Eligibility:
  The grant program is available to the 50 States, the District of Columbia and
  Puerto Rico.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  State Highway Safety Agencies.
Credentials/Documentation:
  States submit certifications that it meets eligibility requirements no later than
  July 1 of each fiscal year.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review
  of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Certifications, signed by the Governor's Representative for Highway Safety, are
  due no later than July 1 of each fiscal year to the appropriate NHTSA Regional
  Administrator. To apply for grant funds in a fiscal year, a New or Changed Law
  State must submit the certification required by Federal Register, Vol. 71, No. 20,
  Tuesday, January 31, 2006, Appendix 1 and an Unchanged Law State must
  submit the certification required by Federal Register, Vol. 71, No. 20, Tuesday,
  January 31, 2006, Appendix 2, signed by the Governor's Representative for
  Highway Safety, to the appropriate NHTSA Regional Administrator.
Award Procedure:
  A State submits certification that it meets eligibility requirements; after being
  informed by NHTSA that it is eligible for a grant, the State submits to the
  agency a plan that describes the programs the State will implement using the
  funds. Federal share is reimbursed on claims submitted in vouchers covering
  costs incurred. All participants have converted to the Electronic Transfer of
  Funds method. Funds placed in obligation are available until expended. NHTSA
  notifies the Governor in a letter that the State has met the requirements for a
  Section 2011 grant. The letter also describes the amount of the grant award.
Deadlines:
