  Systems."                                                                          
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  See Appendix IV of the Catalog for a listing of Pipeline and Harardous Materials   
  Safety Administration regional office addresses.                                   
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Pileline and Harardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of              
  Transportation, 400 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20590. Contact: Tom        
  Fortner. Telephone: (202) 366- 4595.                                               
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.phmsa.dot.gov.                                                          
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  None.                                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  State Pipeline Safety Program.                                                     
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  All proposals from eligible State utility regulatory agencies are considered for   
  funding to the limit of available grant money.                                     
                                                                                     
20.701 UNIVERSITY TRANSPORTATION CENTERS                                             
                                                                                     
PROGRAM                                                                              
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  RESEARCH AND INNOVATIVE TECHNOLOGY ADMINISTRATION,                                 
  DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION                                                       
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  49 U.S.C. 5338, 5505, and 5506.                                                    
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To provide grants to nonprofit institutions of higher learning for the purpose of  
  establishing and operating university transportation centers that conduct          
  research, education, and technology transfer programs addressing regional and      
  national transportation issues.                                                    
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  The University Transportation Centers will address surface transportation          
  problems and issues and will seek solutions to both long-range and immediate       
  transportation problems. See below for information about grant matching            
  requirements.                                                                      
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  For the program's competitive grants, public and private nonprofit institutions of

  higher learning that have established transportation research programs. Non-       
  competitive grants must also be to public and private nonprofit institutions of    
  higher learning but may or may not have established programs.

Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  For the program's competitive grants, public and private nonprofit institutions of 
  higher learning that have established transportation research programs. Non-

  competitive grants must also be to public and private nonprofit institutions of    
  higher learning but may or may not have established programs.                      
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  A formal application outlining in detail how the institution meets program         
  mission and goals; proposed management of the center; detailed delineation of      
  organization, staff, faculty, and budget.                                          
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                     
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Two competitive selections for new grants will be held during 2006 for 1) one      
  grant in each of ten standard Federal regions of the U.S. and 2) ten other grants  
  with no locational restrictions. Applications will consist of standard Federal     
  grant application and related forms and a proposal prepared to specifications that 
  the agency will provide.                                                           
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Applications will be reviewed by a Departmental panel. Selection will be made      
  by the RITA Administrator.                                                         
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Competition is anticipated for spring/summer 2010, if the program is               
  reauthorized in new legislation passed in 2009.                                    
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Approximately six weeks.                                                           
Appeals:                                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Renewals:                                                                            
  Competitive grants are for a four-year period; noncompetitive grants are for       
  periods stated in the authorizing legislation. Grants are renewable each year      
  upon satisfactory completion of prior-year work.                                   
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  The Federal share of a grant shall be 50 percent of the costs of establishing and  
  operating the university transportation center.                                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Three, four, or five years as designated in the authorizing legislation.           
Reports:                                                                             


                                                                               11-08 
  Semi-annual and annual progress and financial reports; final technical report at
  the end of each research project.
Audits:
  Consistent with OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Recipient is required to retain intact, for 3 years following submission of the
  final expenditure report, pending resolution of audit findings, all grant products,
  financial records, and supporting documents.
Account Identification:
  69-1136-0-1-401; 69-8083-0-7-401.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $76,700,000; FY 08 $76,700,000; and FY 09 $76,700,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Between $300,000 and $3,500,000 per center per fiscal year depending upon
  language in authorizing legislation.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  The University Transportation Centers Program began in fiscal year 1988. Each
  center is extensively involved in research directly related to regional and national
  transportation issues. The centers also educate hundreds of students each year
  and built partnerships with state and local government as well as industry.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Posted on the University Transportation Centers Program website at
  http://utc.dot.gov.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Research and Innovative Technology Administration; Office of Innovation,
  Research, and Education (RDT-30); Department of Transportation; 1200 New
  Jersey Avenue, S.E., Washington, DC 20590. Telephone: (800) 853-1351.
Web Site Address:
  http://utc.dot.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  See Agency website.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Resources available to conduct work of center; leadership in transportation;
  established transportation programs in prior years; ability to disseminate results
  (full text found in authorizing legislation at 49 U.S.C. 5506).
20.703 INTERAGENCY HAZARDOUS MATERIALS PUBLIC
SECTOR TRAINING AND PLANNING GRANTS
  (Hazardous Materials Emergency Preparedness Training and Planning
  Grants, (HMEP))
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  PIPELINE AND HAZARDOUS MATERIALS SAFETY ADMINISTRATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Federal Hazardous Materials Transportation Act, 49 U.S.C. 5105 et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  To increase State, local, territorial and Native American tribal effectiveness to
  safely and efficiently handle hazardous materials accidents and incidents;
  enhance implementation of the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-
  Know Act of 1986 (EPCRA); and encourage a comprehensive approach to
  emergency planning and training by incorporating response to transportation
  standards.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The grant program will be used to increase the emphasis on transportation in
  ongoing efforts and to improve the capability of communities to plan for and
  respond to the full range of potential risks posed by accidents and incidents
  involving hazardous materials. The grants have two principal uses: First, to
  assist States, Territories and Native American Tribes in developing, improving
  and implementing emergency response plans under EPCRA; including the
  determination of flow patterns of hazardous materials within a State, between
  States and Native American lands; determining the need for regional hazardous
  materials response teams. Second, to stimulate support for training of Public
  Sector employees to respond to accidents and incidents involving hazardous
  materials.
Applicant Eligibility:
  States, U. S. Territories and Federally recognized Native American Tribes may
  apply for either or both planning and training grants. The Governor or Official
  of each eligible applicant has been asked to designate an agency responsible for
  managing the program. DOT will work with the designated organization.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  All segments of the U.S. including Territories and Native American tribal
  populations that are involved with management of or possible exposure to
                                                                                    747
