  hazardous materials are benefited. Specifically Federal, State, and local         
  responsibilities are assisted through the HMTA grant program. Students and        
  trainees in emergency response and local emergency planning activities are        
  program beneficiaries since grant funds will be used to benefit local programs.   
Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  Applicants must certify that they meet or exceed a nonfederal maintenance of      
  effort level equivalent to the average of aggregate nonfederal applicant          
  expenditures for the preceding 2 years. They must also certify that the State,    
  Territory or Native American Tribe is complying with sections 301 and 303 of      
  EPCRA. Those States, Territories or Native American Tribes must agree to          
  make at least 75 percent of the Federal planning funds awarded available to       
  Local Emergency Planning Committees (LEPCs) for developing, improving, or         
  implementing emergency plans, and 75 percent of the benefit of training funds     
  available to local emergency responders.                                          
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental        
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official   
  designated as the single point of contact his or her, State, Territory or Native  
  American Tribe for more information on the process required to follow in          
  applying for assistance.                                                          
Application Procedure:                                                              
  Applicants are to complete and submit an original and 1 copy of Standard Form     
  424. The application must follow guidance provided in the HMEP Application        
  Kit that was transmitted to the Governor's designated agency in each State,       
  Territory or Native American Tribe. The kit may be obtained from the HMEP         
  Grants Manager. Completed applications are to be sent to HMEP Grants              
  Manager, Research and Special Programs Administration, 400 Seventh Street,        
  SW., DHM-64, Washington, DC 20590. Funded applications will be subject to         
  the Public Sector Planning and Training Grants Program regulation 49 Code of      
  Federal Regulations (CFR), part 110, and 49 CFR, part 18, the A-102 based         
  regulation, which governs all DOT grant programs.                                 
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  The decision to fund will be made by the HMEP Grants Manager after                
  considering internal review.

Deadlines:                                                                          
  The deadline for submitting applications is July 1 for States, Territories, and

  Native American Tribes. Grant awards will be made in September.                   
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

  From 30 to 90 days.                                                               
Appeals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                             
Renewals:                                                                           
  The statement of work will normally call for 6 years of project activities within 
  shorter budget periods (usually 1 year). Each budget period after the first award 
  will be funded subject to availability of funds and satisfactory progress as      
  determined by review of continuation application proposals.                       
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  This program has no statutory formula for distribution of funds among             
  applicants. However, nonfederal cost sharing of at least 20 percent of total      
  project costs is required under provisions of HMEP, Section 117A(d). This         
  program has maintenance of effort requirements; see funding agency for further    
  details.                                                                          
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  The length of project periods may extend from time of initial award through       
  fiscal year 2010; however phased accomplishments or budget periods will limit     
  the time frame for the funds awarded. Payments will generally be reimbursable,    
  paid based on submission of a Request For Advance or Reimbursement Form           
  270 using DOT automated clearinghouse electronic transfer procedures.             
                                                                                    
Reports:

                                                                                    
  Requirements are specifically indicated in the award document and may vary

                                                                                    
  from project to project. All applications for continuation grants must be

                                                                                    
  supported by progress reports.

                                                                                    
Audits:

                                                                                    
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June

                                                                                    
  27, 2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,

                                                                                    
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in

                                                                                    
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that

                                                                                    
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal

                                                                                    
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted

                                                                                    
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.                                                        
Records:                                                                            
  Records of technical and financial accomplishments must be maintained for 3       
  years after submission of an acceptable final Financial Status Report, or until   
  any unresolved audit issues are resolved.                                         
Account Identification:                                                             
  69-5282-0-2-407.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  FY 07 $12,800,000; FY 08 est $26,800,000; and FY 09 est not reported.             
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  From $4,000 to $968,000. Average: $180,281.                                       


748                                                                           11-08

PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Since the beginning of the grant program, all States and territories and 41 Indian
  tribes have received over $72 million in assistance. The HMEP program has set
  aside 3 percent of planning and training funds to support Federally recognized
  Native American tribes.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  49 Code of Federal Regulations, Part 110, Hazardous Materials Public Sector
  Training and Planning Grants; 49 Code of Federal Regulations, Part 18, Uniform
  Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State
  and Local Governments and Indian tribes. A grant application kit is available
  from DOT that includes all guidance, regulatory and administrative
  requirements.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Charles Rogoff, HMEP Grants Manager, Department of Transportation, Pipeline
  and Harardous Materials Administration, 400 Seventh Street, S.W., PMH-64,
  Washington, DC 20590. Telephone: (202) 366-0001.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.phmsa.dot.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Hazardous Materials Awareness, Technician and Specialist training, LEPC
  planning preparation, hazards analyses studies, commodity flow studies, and
  needs assessment for regional response teams and number of response personnel
  needing to be trained.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable for grants to States and Territories. Grants made from the set
  aside for Native American Tribes will be in accordance with the following
  selection criteria: (1) Potential Benefit (30 points); (2) Priority Need (40 points);
  (3) Number of Public Sector Employees Trained (20 points); (4) Long Term
  Benefit to Tribe (10 points); (5) Past Performance (10 points).
20.704 RITA HYDROGEN
   (SAFTEA-LU Hydrogen R&D)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  RESEARCH AND INNOVATIVE TECHNOLOGY ADMINISTRATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  23 U.S.C. 502, Section 5513.
OBJECTIVES:
  To Provide research grants to nonprofit institutions of higher learning for the
  purpose of conducting transportation related research, education, and technology
  transfer programs concerning national transportation issues in the areas of
  propulsion technology and alternative fuels.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The grantees will conduct research according to the provisions provided in 23
  U.S.C. 502 SEC. 5513. The Department's role will be to manage the grants,
  coordinate with the grantees to best address related DOT program needs, and
  ensure that no unnecessary duplication of effort exists with other DOT projects.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Earmark recipients as designated by 23 U.S.C. 502 SEC. 5513.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Public and private nonprofit institutions of higher learning.
Credentials/Documentation:
  A formal application outlining how the institution will meet the project scope;
  detailed delineation of organization, staff, faculty, and budget. Costs are
  determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-21. This program is
  excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  No new grants will be awarded during the program's remaining authorization
  (through 2009).
Award Procedure:
  None.
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  None.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The Federal share of this grant shall be 20 percent of the funds received by the
