  Eligible programs will cover such areas as compliance enforcement, legal               
  assistance with enforcement actions, new equipment to support on-going                 
  enforcement programs, compliance monitoring, one call center statistics,               
  compliance/noncompliance statistics, One-call membership initiatives, computer         
  equipment, communication improvements, development and/or conduct of state-            
  provided training programs for locators, development and/or distribution of            
  promotional items or materials, damage prevention awareness campaigns, public          
  service annoucements, informational mailings, advertisements and One Call              
  center promotional items.                                                              
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                   
  This optional grant is only open for states that have a certification or agreement     
  with US DOT Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration                     
  (PHMSA) to do pipeline safety inspections. State agencies who participate in           
  the pipeline safety program are eligible to apply for One Call grant funding on        
  an annual basis. This optional grant program has a maximum amount request of           
  $50,000 per state and supports initiatives to further promote efforts specifically     
  for damage prevention, including one-call legislation, related compliance              
  activities, training and public education.                                             
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                 
  State agency.                                                                          
Credentials/Documentation:                                                               
  Appropriate State legal official must approve legality of agency application and       
  agreement. Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular Number             
  A-87 for State and local governments, and "One Call Application Instructions".         
  Application (plan) is opened on October 15 and due November 15.                        
Preapplication Coordination:                                                             
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental             
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official        
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information     
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the    
  State has selected the program for review.                                             
Application Procedure:                                                                   
  Each State submits a detailed description of the proposed project activity in one      
  or more of the three priority categories available with requested costs on how the     
  money would be spent and why. The maximum amount requested per state is                
  limited to $50,000. The application will be specific regarding what the funding        
  would buy, and what otherwise unmet need the funding would help resolve. If

  the proposed activity was previously submitted and approved, the applicant will        
  required to provide a description of results from previous action of the activity.

Award Procedure:                                                                         
  Awards are made by the DOT, Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety

  Administration, Washington, DC.                                                        
Deadlines:                                                                               
  Applications are submitted by November 15 for the next calendar year. A later          
  date for filing applications is established if appropriations are not available by     
  November 15.                                                                           
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                      
  From 60 to 90 days of receipt.                                                         
Appeals:                                                                                 
  Not applicable.                                                                        
Renewals:                                                                                
  Not applicable.                                                                        
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                       
  The maximum amount requested per state is limited to $50,000. A state can not          
  request grant funds to implement proposed legislation - the legislation must           
  have already been passed. Additional instructions and guidelines for applying to       
  this opportunity will be given to the earmarked applicant group when the               
  opportunity approaches its availability. The grant allocation is determined by         
  reviewing the total amounts in priority one, two and three projects and                
  distributing funds across all projects based on the total grant amount.                
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                   
  Expenditures must be used during the calendar year when the grant is awarded.          
  Funds not used will be deducted from the State agencies Pipeline Safety                
  Program End-Year reimbursement request.                                                
Reports:                                                                                 
  Annual activity report.                                                                
Audits:                                                                                  
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June             
  27, 2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,           
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in            
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that       
  year. Nonfederal entities thae expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal             
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted       
  in OMB Circular No.A-133.                                                              
Records:                                                                                 
  All records relating to the projects shall be retained for a period of not less than 3 
  years from the date of submission of fund expenditure report.                          
Account Identification:                                                                  
  69-5172-0-2-407.                                                                       
Obligations:                                                                             
                                                                                         
750                                                                                11-08

  FY 07 $1,021,000; FY 08 est $1,043,000; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $3,666 to $35,400.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Thirty-seven State agencies requested $1,695,592 and received allocations for
  fiscal year 2007 for the optional one call grant fund in the amount of
  $1,021,000. No eligible State applicant was rejected. State agencies are
  awarded grants funds to help educate the public and contractors about the
  prevention of damage to all underground facilities. This awareness program and
  other similar projects assisted in reducing accidents and damages from occurring
  on natural gas and liquid pipeline systems.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Pipeline Safety Regulations, 49 CFR 190, 191, 192, 193, 195, 198 and 199.
  Individual copies available from the Transportation Safety Institute, PHMSA
  Training and Qualification, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 73125. "Guidelines for
  States Participating in the Pipeline Safety Program."
Regional or Local Office:
  See Appendix IV of the Catalog for a listing of Pipeline and Hazardous
  Materials Safety Administration regional office addresses.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Transportation, Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety
  Administration, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, S.E., Washington, DC 20590.
  Contact: State Program Director. Telephone: (202) 366-4595.
Web Site Address:
  None.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Compliance Enforcement and Monitoring, One Call Membership Inittiatives for
  Operators, Implementation of One Call Laws and Regulations, Excavator and
  Public Awareness, Public Service Annoucements, Equipment to support on-
  going enforcement program.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  All proposals from eligible State utility regulatory agencies are considered for
  funding to the limit of available grant money. The maximum amount requested
  per state is limited to $50,000.
20.760 UNIVERSITY TRANSPORTATION CENTERS
   (University Transportation Centers)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  RESEARCH AND INNOVATIVE TECHNOLOGY ADMINISTRATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  49 U.S.C. 5338, 5505, and 5506.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide grants to nonprofit institutions of higher learning for the purpose of
  establishing and operating university transportation centers that conduct
  research, education, and technology transfer programs addressing regional and
  national transportation issues.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The University Transportation Centers will address surface transportation
  problems and issues and will seek solutions to both long-range and immediate
  transportation problems. See below for information about grant matching
  requirements.
Applicant Eligibility:
  For the program's competitive grants, public and private nonprofit institutions of
  higher learning that have established transportation research programs. Non-
  competitive grants must also be to public and private nonprofit institutions of
  higher learning but may or may not have established programs.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  For the program's competitive grants, public and private nonprofit institutions of
  higher learning that have established transportation research programs. Non-
  competitive grants must also be to public and private nonprofit institutions of
  higher learning but may or may not have established programs.
Credentials/Documentation:
  A formal application outlining in detail how the institution meets program
  mission and goals; proposed management of the center; detailed delineation of
  organization, staff, faculty, and budget.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Two competitive selections for new grants will be held during 2006 for 1) one
  grant in each of ten standard Federal regions of the U.S. and 2) ten other grants
  with no locational restrictions. Applications will consist of standard Federal
  grant application and related forms and a proposal prepared to specifications that
  the agency will provide.
Award Procedure:
