  MARITIME ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION                              
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Public Law 96-453.                                                                 
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To train future merchant marine officers in State Maritime Schools.                
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Direct Payments for Specified Use; Use of Property, Facilities, and Equipment.     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Operation and maintenance of State Maritime Schools; maintenance and repair        
  of training vessels loaned by Federal Government; student incentive payments to    
  selected cadets.                                                                   
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  States. Limited to one academy in any one State.                                   
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Students, meeting eligibility requirements.                                        
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Formal application from State Governor setting forth evidence of establishment     
  of school; State appropriation for the school; suitable curriculum and facilities.

  This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.

Preapplication Coordination:

                                                                                     
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372. This program        
  is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102.

Application Procedure:                                                               
  Letter from a State Governor to the Secretary of Transportation or the Maritime    
  Administrator. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular           
  No. A-110. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No.           
  A-102.                                                                             
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Need for training must be established. The final award is approved by the          
  Maritime Administrator.                                                            
Deadlines:                                                                           
  None.                                                                              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Appeals:                                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Renewals:                                                                            
  Federal/State contracts for assistance automatically extended year by year unless  
  cancelled.                                                                         
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Annual assistance payment of $297,000 to regional academies if matched by          
  State appropriations and if out-of-State students are enrolled. Federal assistance 
  consists of (1) lump-sum annual assistance payment to schools, (2) loan of         
  vessel and payment for its maintenance, and (3) student incentive payments.        
  States are required to show that their annual funding for the school at least      
  matches the Federal lump sum assistance payment.                                   
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Annual payments to the schools are given on a lump-sum basis.                      
Reports:                                                                             
  Monthly enrollment by class. Annual cost analysis of school operation. Other at    
  request of the Maritime Administrator.                                             
Audits:                                                                              
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June         
  27, 2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,       
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in        
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that   
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal         
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted   
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                             
Records:                                                                             
  Pertaining to each school, its officers, faculty and students, the vessel and crew,
  and the shore base are required to be kept for the period of                       
  employment/enrollment, plus 6 years.                                               
Account Identification:                                                              
  69-1750-0-1-403.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Program Level) FY 07 $11,099,000; FY 08 $13,181,000; and FY 09 $0.                
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  Annual assistance payment of $315,000 to each regional school, provided State      
  matches funds and admits eligible out-of-State students. An allowance of $4,000    
  per academic year, not to exceed 4 years, paid to selected students in good        
  standing in the Student Incentive Payment Program.                                 
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  A total of 515 licensed mariners graduated from the State maritime schools in      
  2007. Forty-eight cadets who received student incentive payments graduated as      
  Merchant Marine officers.                                                          
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  46 CFR 310A; Standard college catalogs are available from the schools listed       
  below .                                                                            
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  (a) Federal Government: none; (b) standard information for prospective students:   


                                                                                11-08
  Maine Maritime Academy, Castine, ME 04421; Massachusetts Maritime
  Academy, Buzzards Bay, MA 02532; State University of New York Maritime
  College, Fort Schuyler, NY 10465; Texas Maritime Academy, Galveston, TX
  77550; California Maritime Academy, Vallejo, CA 94591; Great Lakes
  Maritime Academy, Traverse City, MI 49684.
Headquarters Office:
  Associate Administrator for Business and Workforce Development, Maritime
  Administration, Department of Transportation, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, S.E.,
  Washington, DC 20590. Telephone: (202) 366-5737.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.marad.dot.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  11.417, Sea Grant Support; 20.807, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  See USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS section of this program.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  See Credentials/Documentation section of this program.
20.807 U.S. MERCHANT MARINE ACADEMY
   (Kings Point)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  MARITIME ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Law 96-453.
OBJECTIVES:
  To educate and train merchant marine officers.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Training.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  This program is a federally operated maritime academy providing education,
  training, subsistence, books, quarters, uniforms, medical care, and program
  travel to its U.S. citizen students without cost. Appropriations restricted to the
  above and the operation and maintenance of the school. International student
  costs subject to legislation.
Applicant Eligibility:
  High school graduates who are U.S. citizens and international students in
  accordance with legislation. In general, criteria are similar to those generally
  used for college admission.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  High school graduates who are U.S. citizens and eligible international students.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Usual documents for college admission and a comprehensive physical
  examination.
Preapplication Coordination:
  U.S. citizens desiring appointment to the school apply to Senators or
  Congresspersons for nomination. This program is excluded from coverage under
  E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Nominating officials submit nominations to school's Office of Admission.
  Selection is competitive by merit.
Award Procedure:
  Appointment approved by the Maritime Administrator.
Deadlines:
  Nominations must be submitted by January 31 of the year preceding that in
  which admission is desired. Applications must be submitted by March 1 of the
  year in which admission is desired.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 3 to 8 months.
Appeals:
  To the school.
Renewals:
  Applicants not accepted may reapply the following year.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Not applicable.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Students are furnished with all required uniforms and textbooks during their 4
  years at the Academy.
Reports:
  At the request of the Maritime Administration.
Audits:
  Not applicable.
Records:
  Copies will be furnished at the request of the Maritime Administration. Those
  pertaining to its officers, faculty, staff and midshipmen shall be kept for the
  period of enrollment plus eight years.
Account Identification:
  69-1750-0-1-403.
Obligations:
  (Program Level) FY 07 $61,925,000 (result of reprogramming); FY 08
                                                                                   755
