Application Procedure:                                                                
  Applications are submitted directly to one several Participating Leaders (PLs).     
  Applicant may obtain a copy of the application and identify the bank servicing      
  their region from the OSDBU internet site at http://osdbuweb.dot.gov.               
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  All lines of credit are approved through separate decisions by the Participating    
  Lender (PL) and by DOT. Lines of credit are serviced by approving PL.               
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  OSDBU staff will reveiw the application for completeness. This review can be        
  within 5 business days. Once it has been determined that the application is ready   
  ti be submitted to the PL, the applicant will submit to the PL a $150.00            
  application fee along with the complete application. Decisions are made within      
  30 to 60 days from the time the complete application is submitted to the PL.        
Appeals:                                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Renewals:                                                                             
  Applicant may apply for renewal of line of credits as long as they remain eligible  
  (certification is current and they have a current transportation related contract). 
  Renewals and increases in the line of credit are possible. The maximun length in    
  the program is 5 years.                                                             
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Lines of credit is for one year term with the possibility of renewal for four       
  additional years based upon continued eligiblity.                                   
Reports:                                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Audits:                                                                               
  DOT has the right to audit its accounts with the banks.                             
Records:                                                                              
  OSDBU maintains records of all applicant files, such as approvals, pending          
  review, loan readiness, denials, etc. All line of credit approvals will be          
  maintained for 7 years and non-approvals will be maintained for 3 years.            
Account Identification:                                                               
  69-0102-0-1-407.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Loans) FY 07 est not available; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not

                                                                                      
  available.

                                                                                      
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  The maximum line of credit is $750,000, and there is no minimum amount.

                                                                                      
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

                                                                                      
  None.

                                                                                      
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

                                                                                      
  Public Law 97-449, 49 U.S.C. 332.

Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization, S-40, Office of the         
  Secretary, Department of Transportation, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, S.E. Suite         
  W56-497 Washington, DC 20590. Telephone: (202) 366-5577; toll free (800)            
  532-1169.                                                                           
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.osdbuweb.dot.gov.                                                        
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  59.006, 8(a) Business Development Program; 59.043, Women's Business                 
  Ownership Assistance.                                                               
                                                                                      
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

                                                                                      
  Not applicable.

                                                                                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

                                                                                      
  Not applicable.

                                                                                      
                                                                                      
20.910 ASSISTANCE TO SMALL AND DISADVANTAGED                                          
BUSINESSES                                                                            
                                                                                      
      (OSDBU's Small Business Transportation Resource Centers)

                                                                                      
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY, DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                                                                                      
AUTHORIZATION:

                                                                                      
  The Department of Transportation (DOT), Office of Small and Disadvantaged

                                                                                      
  Business Utilization (OSDBU) was established in accordance with Public Law

                                                                                      
  95-507, an amendment to the Small Business Act and the Small Business

                                                                                      
  Investment Act of 1958. OSDBU is responsible for the implementation and

                                                                                      
  execution of the USDOT activities on behalf of small businesses in accordance

                                                                                      
  with Sections 8, 15 and 31 of the Small Business Act (SBA), as amended. The

                                                                                      
  OSDBU also administers the provisions of Title 49 of the United States code,

                                                                                      
  Section 332, the Minority Resource Center (MRC) which includes the duties of

                                                                                      
  advocacy, outreach and financial services on behalf of small and disadvantaged

                                                                                      
  businesses and those certified under CFR 49 Parts 23 and or 26 as



762                                                                             11-08

  Disadvantaged Business Enterprises (DBE).
OBJECTIVES:
  To enter into successful partnerships between OSDBU and chambers of
  commerce, community-based organizations, colleges and universities,
  community colleges, or trade associations, to establish regional Small Business
  Transportation Resource Centers (SBTRCs) to provide business assessment,
  technical assistance, technical assistance referrals, business training, and the
  dissemination of information regarding DOT and DOT funded contracting
  opportunities, as well as OSDBU services to the Disadvantaged Business
  Enterprise (DBE) and Small Business (SB) community in their regions.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The Regional SBTRCs work with OSDBU's Financial Assistance Division and
  STLP participating lenders to organize seminars and workshops on this accounts
  receivable financial access program that is available to eligible DBEs and small
  businesses. The seminars and workshops cover the entire STLP process, from
  completion of STLP loan application and preparation of the loan package to
  approval and loan management.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Established 501 C(6) tax-exempt Chambers of Commerce, Trade Associations
  and 501 C(3) nonprofit organization, community colleges, minority educational
  institutions, tribal colleges and universities that have the documented experience
  and capacity necessary to successfully operate and administer a coordinated,
  Small Business Transportation Resource Center (SBTRC) within their regions.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  For the purpose of this program, the term small businesses refers to: 8 (a), small
  disadvantaged business (SDB), disadvantaged business enterprises (DBE),
  women-owned small business (WOB), HubZone, service- disabled veteran-
  owned business, and veteran owned small business.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Must be an established 501 C(3) or 501 C(6) tax exempt organization and
  provide documentation as verification. No application will be accepted without
  proof of tax exempt status. Have at least one year of documented and continuous
  experience prior to the date of application in providing advocacy, outreach, and
  technical assistance to small businesses within the region in which proposed
  services will be provided. Have an office physically located within the proposed
  city in the designated headquarters state in the region for which applicant is
  submitting the proposal, that is readily accessible to the public.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Consultation and assistance is available from the Office of Small and
  Disadvantaged Business Utilization (OSDBU). This program is excluded from
  coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applicants must be registered by using http://www.grants.gov/. Applications
  must be submitted electronically to OSDBU through http://www.grants.gov/.
Award Procedure:
  Applications will be reviewed by a selection panel and selection will be made
  based upon the evaluation criteria included in the announcement. The
  Department of Transportation, Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business
  Utilization will award the Cooperative Agreements.
Deadlines:
  No new awards are contemplated for FY 08 and FY 09.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Notification of awards will be made by April 16, 2007.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Optional.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Selected SBTRC partners will be expected to provide a designated SBTRC
  space, administrative support, and all other general and administrative expenses.
   Submitted proposals must contain an alternative funding source with which the
  SBTRC will fund the general and administrative costs. Proposals containing
  alternative funding sources in excess of general and administrative costs to
  directly fund additional services to the small business transportation community
  will receive favorable consideration.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Awards are generally made for a minimum of 12 months. Extensions over a
  longer period are possible, contingent upon the needs of the OSDBU. This is a
  cost reimbursable agreement subsequent to expenses incurred, and
  disbursements are made on a monthly basis, subject to activities successfully
  performed and approved by OSDBU.
Reports:
  Implementation Plan and Monthly Reports; Implementation Plans are due within
  7 days of the effective date of the Cooperative Agreement. Monthly Reports are
  due on the 5th day of each subsequent month.
Audits:
  DOT's Inspector General and the Comptroller General of the United States may
  at all reasonable times investigate and conduct audits in the offices of the
