Application Procedure:                                                             
  There are a variety of application procedures depending on the circumstances.

  For the Governmental Liaison Data Exchange Program which includes recurring      
  aggregate data extracts, applicants complete an Annual Registration Form. For

  specialty programs such as ATAT and EOAD/Fedstar, applicants sign a              
  Memorandum of Understanding (MOU). For individual or one-time requests,          
  applicants send a written request to the Disclosure Office, in their area        
  jurisdictions. Addresses can be found by clicking "IRS Disclosure Offices" on    
  http://www.irs.gov/foia/.                                                        
Award Procedure:                                                                   
  Not applicable.                                                                  
Deadlines:                                                                         
  None.                                                                            
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                
  Not applicable.                                                                  
Appeals:                                                                           
  Not applicable.                                                                  
Renewals:                                                                          
  Not applicable.                                                                  
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                 
  This program has no statutory formula nor matching requirement.                  
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                  
Reports:                                                                           
  Agency Officials are required to submit a Safeguard Procedures Report 45 days    
  prior to receipt of Federal tax data, and an annual Safeguard Activity Report.   
  6103 Accounting Report for the Joint Committee on Taxation is an annual report   
  filed by IRS to show the number of disclosures made on an annual basis.          
Audits:                                                                            
  On-site Safeguard Reviews will be conducted by IRS personnel every three years   
  to ensure confidentiality and security of Federal tax data. On-site Need and Use 
  Reviews are conducted tri-annually, in conjunction with the Safeguard Review,    
  by IRS personnel to confirm that agencies receiving Federal Tax Information      
  have a need for the data, and to ensure the agencies are using the data for tax  
  administration purposes.                                                         
Records:                                                                           
  Agencies are required to maintain a system of standardized records of requests   
  for inspection or disclosure.                                                    
Account Identification:                                                            
  20-0912-0-1-803.                                                                 
Obligations:                                                                       
  (Support and Services) FY 07 est not available; FY 08 est not available; and FY  
  09 est not available. (Note: In 1994, IRS decided to waive the fees charged to   
  State and local agencies. These agencies can obtain tax data extract information 
  through various IRS disclosure offices for free).                                
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                         
  Not applicable.                                                                  
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                           
  The Internal Revenue Service has written agreements with state agencies          
  representing 50 states, the District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, Puerto   
  Rico, the Virgin Islands, New York City, Louisville, St. Louis, Cincinnati,      
  Cleveland, Toledo, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Detroit, Kansas City, Columbus,     
  the city of Lexington-Fayette Urban County Government, Regional Income Tax       
  Authority (RITA), Ohio Central Collection Agency (CCA), and Jefferson County     
  Government.                                                                      
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                           
  - Internal Revenue Manual 11.3.32, Disclosure of Official Information,           
  Disclosure to States for Tax Administration Purposes, found at                   
  http://www.irs.gov/irm/part11/ch03s34.html - Publication 1075, Tax               
  Information Security Guidelines, found at http://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-            
  pdf/p1075.pdf.                                                                   
Regional or Local Office:                                                          
  Disclosure Officer, in all area jurisdictions, found at                          
  http://www.irs.gov/foia/article/0,,id=120681,00.html.                            
Headquarters Office:                                                               
  Director, Governmental Liaison and Disclosure, complete addresses can be         
  found in local directories, Internal Revenue Service, Room 2010, 1111            
  Constitution Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20224. Telephone: (202) 622-6200.         
  Use the same number for FTS. Office of Safeguards Internal Revenue Service       
  (OS/MA/PR/S), 1111 Constitution Ave., NW, IR-3619, Washington, DC                
  20224. E-mail: SafeguardReports@irs.gov.                                         
Web Site Address:                                                                  
  http://www.irs.gov/businesses/small/article/0,,id=177651,00.html                 
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                  
  None.                                                                            
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                       
  Individual Tax Models used by State tax agencies in determining their rate       
  structure; Individual/Business Master File Tax Data Extracts;                    
  Individual/Business Returns Transaction File Extracts; Information Returns       
  Master File Extracts.                                                            
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                  


766                                                                          11-08

  Not applicable.
21.006 TAX COUNSELING FOR THE ELDERLY
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Revenue Act of 1978, Section 163, Public Law 95- 600, 92 Stat. 2810.
OBJECTIVES:
  To authorize the Internal Revenue Service to enter into agreements with private
  or public nonprofit agencies or organizations; to establish a network of trained
  volunteers to provide free income tax information and return preparation
  assistance to elderly taxpayers.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funding may be used for reimbursing volunteers for their out-of-pocket
  expenses including transportation, meals, and other expenses incurred by them
  in providing tax counseling assistance at locations convenient to the taxpayers.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Tax Counseling for the Elderly sponsors must be private or public nonprofit
  organizations with experience in coordinating volunteer programs. Federal,
  State, and local governmental agencies and organizations are not eligible to
  sponsor a program.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Elderly taxpayers, 60 years or older.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372 and OMB
  Circular No. A-102.
Application Procedure:
  Each Tax Counseling for the Elderly applicant must complete a Tax Counseling
  for the Elderly application package. This program is subject to the provisions of
  OMB Circular No. A-110.
Award Procedure:
  IRS reviews applications and selects Tax Counseling for the Elderly Program
  sponsors based on their evaluative score and prior performance (if returning
  sponsor).
Deadlines:
  Applications are generally available in June and due to IRS 60 days after the
  date the program is announced in the Federal Register.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Applicants whose proposals are accepted will generally be notified of award
  decisions by October 1st or as soon as Congress has appropriated TCE funds.
  The IRS will advise those who were not selected or did not qualify based on their
  application package.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Cooperative Agreements expire on September 30 of each year unless an earlier
  date is set in the Cooperative Agreement.
Reports:
  Form 8654, Tax Counseling for the Elderly Quarterly/Final Program Report is
  required to be submitted to the IRS quarterly.
Audits:
  Audit requirements applicable to grant sponsors are described in OMB Circular
  A-133, 62 FR 35278-35302 (June 30, 1997). If you expend less than $500,000 a
  year in total Federal awards, no audit requirements are applicable. If you expend
  $500,000 or more a year in Federal awards, you must provide IRS with a copy of
  your Single Audit Report. You must arrange for an audit by an independent
  auditor in accordance with the Government Auditing Standards developed by the
  Comptroller General of the United States.
Records:
  Organizations must maintain records on expenses volunteers incur and for which
  they are reimbursed.
Account Identification:
  20-0912-0-1-803.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $3,950,000; FY 08 $4,004,000; and FY 09 est $3,950,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  None.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Last year, nearly 60 sponsors shared $3.95 million and assisted nearly 1.5
  million taxpayers.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Regulations are published each year in the Federal Register (June 1st).
