Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Tax Counseling for the Elderly, Internal Revenue Service, 401 West Peachtree        
  Street NE, Atlanta, GA 30308. Attention: Elizabeth Blair; Telephone: (404)          
  338-8424.                                                                           
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.irs.gov.                                                                 
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  None.                                                                               
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  (1) Quality of Programs and Services for age 60 and over (i.e., qualifications of   
  employees, time devoted to the program, employee/volunteer training, publicity,     
  hours of operation, site location convenient to target elderly taxpayers 60 years   
  and above and ensure elderly taxpayers are given priority services). The            
  maximum number of points will be awarded to an organization whose programs          
  focus/serve elderly taxpayers. (30 points); (2) Geographic coverage and extent of   
  coverage for age 60 and over (i.e., the number of proposed assistance sites,        
  number of volunteers, number of Federal income tax returns to be prepared and       
  e-filed for elderly taxpayers, and other assistance to be provided) (20 points); (3)
  Electronic Filing services for age 60 and over (i.e., the proposed number of        
  Federal income tax returns to be prepared and electronically filed for elderly      
  taxpayers). Returning sponsors prior year e-file volume will be reviewed and the    
  maximum number of points will be awarded for organizations that exceed 50           
  percent e-file for senior taxpayers. (20 points); (4) Prior experience in Federal   
  Tax Return Counseling and Tax Preparation (10 points); (5) Quality of               
  Cooperative Agreement Administration and Internal Accounting Procedures             
  (i.e., experience in providing volunteer service and services to the elderly,       
  organizational structure, experience in managing federal grant programs,            
  reasonableness of proposed budget (70 percent of grants funds should be used        
  for reimbursement expenses and 30 percent should be used for administrative         
  expenses) and qualifications of the TCE management staff) (10 points); and (6)      
  Past performance of a returning sponsor (10 points).                                
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
21.008 LOW-INCOME TAXPAYER CLINICS                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY                                
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Internal Revenue Code, as amended, 26 U.S.C. 7526.                                  
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To provide matching grants to organizations providing: (1) Representation of        
  low income taxpayers in controversies with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS),      
  or (2) programs to inform individuals for whom English is a second language         
  about their taxpayer rights and responsibilities.                                   
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Awards under this program are issued to provide financial assistance that           
  enhances the awardee's ability to represent low-income taxpayers in                 
  controversies with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) or inform individuals for     
  whom English is a second language of their taxpayer rights and responsibilities.    
  Each awardee is required to enter into an assistance agreement that requires the    
  awardee to comply with performance goals and abide by other terms and               
  conditions pertinent to assistance received under this program.                     
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Qualifying organizations that represent low income taxpayers involved in            
  controversies with the IRS and organizations that provide education and             
  outreach on the taxpayer rights and responsibilities of U.S. taxpayers to           
  individuals who speak English as a second language. IRC Section 7526 requires       
  clinics to provide services for free or for no more than a nominal fee. The term    
  "clinic" includes, but is not limited to, a clinical program at an accredited law,  
  business, or accounting school in which students represent low income taxpayers     
  in controversies with the IRS, and an organization described in IRC Section         
  501(c) and exempt from tax under IRC Section 501(a) that either directly            
  represents taxpayers or refers taxpayers to qualified representatives.              
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Low-income taxpayers with incomes which do not exceed 250 percent of the            
  Federal Poverty Guidelines published annually by the Department of Health and       
  Human Services, or taxpayers for whom English is a second language.                 
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                      
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Each Low-Income Taxpayer Clinic applicant must complete a Low-Income                
  Taxpayer Clinic Application Package. See IRS Publication 3319, Low Income

  Taxpayer Clinic Grant Application Package and Guidelines, which you may



                                                                                 11-08
  obtain by calling (1-800) TAX-FORM) (1-800) 829-3676) or by visiting
  www.irs.gov. This program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-
  110. Access www.irs.gov or call (1-800) TAX-FORM (1-800) 829-3676) to
  obtain a copy of Publication 3319.
Award Procedure:
  The IRS reviews applications and selects grant recipients.
Deadlines:
  An annual notice of funds availability, published in the Federal Register,
  announces deadline dates for submission of applications. Deadline dates are
  generally 60 days subsequent to the notice publication date.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Grantees are generally selected 120 days after the application submission
  deadline.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  A multi-year award may be issued up to 3 years maximum.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  All awards of financial assistance shall be matched by the recipient on a dollar-
  for-dollar basis. In general, funds from sources other than from other Federal
  government sources cannot be counted as matching funds.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Generally, an award may be issued up to 3 years maximum.
Reports:
  Each awardee will submit two reports, an interim report due approximately 30
  days after the calendar mid-year and an annual report due approximately 90 days
  after the end of the award year.
Audits:
  Costs incurred are subject to audits throughout the award period subject to the
  award terms and conditions. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular
  No. A-133 (Revised, June 27, 2003), nonfederal entities that expend financial
  assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have a single or a
  program-specific audit for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than
  $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements
  for that year, except as noted in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Award recipients are required to maintain records to substantiate total costs
  incurred and to assure that all performance measures were met. Records must be
  retained in accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110.
Account Identification:
  20-0912-0-1-803.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $8,000,000; FY 08 $9,000,000; and FY 09 est $8,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  None.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In calendar year 2006, 150 organizations received funding, representing all 50
  states, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico. In calendar year 2007, 153
  organizations received funding, representing 49 states, the District of Columbia,
  Puerto Rico, and Guam. A supplemental application period was announced for
  the 2007 calendar year to recruit a clinic in Colorado, resulting in an additional
  two organizations receiving funding in Colorado, bringing the total to 155
  organizations. In each of these years, LITCs provided needed assistance to low
  income taxpayers that otherwise might not have received assistance.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Low Income Taxpayer Clinic Program Application Package (IRS Publication
  3319).
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Internal Revenue Service, Taxpayer Advocate Service, Attn: Shawn
  Collins,Grants Administration Manager, 1111 Constitution Ave., N.W., Room
  1034, Washington, DC 20224.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.irs.gov/advocate E-mail: LITCProgramOffice@irs.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Evaluation factors include: (1) Number of taxpayers who will be served by the
  clinic, including the number of taxpayers in the area for whom English is a
  second language; (2) Existence of other low-income taxpayer clinics serving the
  same population; (3) Quality of the program offered by the clinic, including the
  qualifications of the clinic's administrators and representatives as well as the
  clinic's record in providing service to low-income taxpayers; (4) Alternative
  funding sources available to the clinic; and (5) Other factors deemed appropriate
  under this program.
                                                                                   767
