21.020 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FINANCIAL                                               
INSTITUTIONS PROGRAM                                                                 
                                                                                     
      (CDFI)                                                                         
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS FUND,                                 
  DEPARTMENT OF TREASURY.                                                            
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Public Law 103-325, 12 U.S.C. 4701 et. seq.                                        
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  Through Financial Assistance (FA) awards, the CDFI Fund invests in CDFIs that      
  demonstrate that they have the financial and managerial capacity to: provide       
  affordable and appropriate financial products and services that positively impact  
  their communities; be viable financial institutions; and use and leverage CDFI     
  Fund dollars effectively. Through Technical Assistance (TA) awards, the CDFI       
  Fund provides grants to build the internal capacity of start-up and existing       
  CDFIs by acquiring prescribed types of products or services including              
  technology (usually efficiency enhancing technology such as computers and loan     
  management software), staff training, consulting services to acquire needed        
  skills or services (such as a market analysis or lending policies and procedures), 
  or staff time to conduct discrete, capacity-building activities (such as website   
  development).                                                                      
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Awards under this program are issued to provide financial and/or technical         
  assistance that enhance the awardee's ability to make loans or development         
  investments and to provide development services that will promote economic         
  revitalization and community development. Each awardee is required to enter        
  into an assistance agreement that requires the awardee to comply with              
  performance goals and abide by other terms and conditions pertinent to             
  assistance received under this program. No awards may be issued to Federal         
  Government agencies, departments or instrumentalities. No awards may be            
  issued to any State or local government or any agency or instrumentality thereof.  
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Private nonprofit institutions/organizations, other private                        
  institutions/organizations, profit organizations. Only Community                   
  Development Financial Institutions or entities that provide information            
  necessary for the awarding agency to certify the applicant organization as a       
  Community Development Financial Institution or is seeking to become a CDFI,        
  are eligible to apply for this program.                                            
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Private nonprofit institutions/organizations, other private                        
  institutions/organizations, profit organizations. Awards to eligible               
  applicants under this program provide financial and /or technical assistance in    
  order to enhance their ability to make loans and development investments and       
  provide development services that benefit a designated investment area(s),         
  targeted population(s), or both.                                                   
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  An applicant shall provide information necessary to establish that it is, or will

  be, a Community Development Financial Institution.                                 
Preapplication Coordination:

  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372 and OMB              
  Circular No. A-102.

Application Procedure:                                                               
  Each applicant must complete a Community Development Financial Institutions        
  application package which includes the submission of a Comprehensive               
  Business Plan.                                                                     
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Applications are reviewed and awardees are selected by the Community               
                                                                                     
  Development Financial Institutions Fund.

                                                                                     
Deadlines:

                                                                                     
  Annual notice of funds availability, published in the Federal Register, announces

                                                                                     
  deadline dates for submission of applications. Deadline dates generally range

                                                                                     
  from 30 to 90 days subsequent to the notice publication date.

                                                                                     
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

  Generally, approximately 6 months from submission of application.                  
Appeals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  All awards of financial assistance shall be matched by the recipient on a one      
  dollar to one dollar basis using funds from sources other than the Federal         
  government. Also matching funds must be at least comparable in form (e.g.,         
  equity investments, deposits, credit union shares, loans or grants).               
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Generally, awards may be issued up to a 3 year maximum. Disbursement of            
  funds may be provided in a lump sum or over the life of the award depending on     
                                                                                     
768                                                                            11-08

  the terms and conditions established at time of award issuance.
Reports:
  The type and schedule of reports is specified in the Notice of Funding
  Availability and in the agreement governing the award.
Audits:
  See the Notice of Funding Availability.
Records:
  Award recipients are expected to maintain records to substantiate total costs
  incurred and to assure that all performance measures were met. Records must be
  retained in accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110.
Account Identification:
  20-1881-0-1-451.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $27,386,573; FY 08 est $55,250,000; and FY 09 est
  $55,250,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  (FY 2007 data) $45,045 to $960,000; $396,906.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  For FY 2007, 69 awards were made for the FA and TA CDFI program.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  12 CFR Part 1805, Notice of Funding Availability. Community Development
  Financial Institutions Program Application. Website: www.cdfifund.gov.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Program Office Contact: Ms. Ruth Jaure, Program Manager, Community
  Development Financial Institution Fund, 601 13th Street, NW., Suite 200 South,
  Washington, DC 20005. Telephone: (202) 622-9156, Fax: (202) 622-7754.
  Awards Office Contact: Ms. Ayisa Crowe, Awards Manager, Community
  Development Financial Institution Fund, 601 13th Street, NW., Suite 200 South,
  Washington, DC 20005. Telephone: (202) 622-8691, Fax (202) 622-6453.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.cdfifund.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  21.021, Bank Enterprise Award Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  One award of $1,500,000, along with required matching funds, was issued to
  retain and expand manufacturing companies and other businesses that employ
  low-income resident of a city empowerment zone. Another award, with matching
  funds, is providing funding so that loans can be originated to assist in working
  to restore or establish small business development and affordable housing
  opportunities in targeted population areas.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Evaluation factors include: (1) Financial strength and organizational capacity of
  applicant organization, (2) External resources or matching fund
  commitment/ability to obtain commitments, (3) Community Impact (The
  community need for award and activities to be executed), (4) Community
  Partnerships (Ability to carry out activities and work effectively), and (5) Other
  factors deemed appropriate under this program and published in the notice of
  funds availability.
21.021 BANK ENTERPRISE AWARD PROGRAM
   (Bank Enterprise Award Program (BEA))
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  DEPARTMENT OF TREASURY, UNDER SECRETARY FOR DOMESTIC
  FINANCE, COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
  FUND.
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Law 103-325, 12 U.S.C. 1834a; 12 U.S.C. 4713.
OBJECTIVES:
  To encourage insured depository institutions to increase their level of
  community development activities in the form of loans, investments, services
  and technical assistance within distressed communities and to provide assistance
  to Community Development Financial Institutions through grants, equity
  investments, loans, deposits and other forms of financial and technical
  assistance. The program rewards participating insured depository institutions for
  increasing their activities in economically distressed communities and investing
  in community development financial institutions.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Under this program, awards are issued to selected applicants that: (1) Invest in or
  otherwise support Community Development Financial Institutions; (2)Increase
  lending and investment activities within Distressed Communities; and/or (3)
  Increase the provision of certain services and technical assistance within
  Distressed Communities. An award is based upon a percentage of the increase in
  qualifying activities that are carried out by the applicant between an established
  Baseline Period and Assessment Period. This information is announced in the
  annual notice of funds availability published in the Federal Register. No award
