                                             APPALACHIAN REGIONAL COMMISSION

23.001 APPALACHIAN REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT (SEE                                           
INDIVIDUAL APPALACHIAN PROGRAMS)                                                       
                                                                                       
      (Appalachian Program)                                                            
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  APPALACHIAN REGIONAL COMMISSION                                                      
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Appalachian Regional Development Act of 1965, Public Law 89-4, as amended,           
  40 U.S.C. 14101-14704; Appalachian Regional Development Act Amendments               
  of 2002, Public Law 107-149.                                                         
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To help the regional economy become more competitive by putting in place the         
  building blocks for self-sustaining economic development, while continuing to        
  provide special assistance to the Region's most distressed counties and areas.       
  This program focuses on activities which support ARC's mission to be a               
  strategic partner and advocate for sustainable community and economic                
  development. Activities funded must advance ARC's strategic plan. Specific           
  program goals are: (1) Increase job opportunities and per capita income in           
  Appalachia to reach parity with the nation; (2) Strengthen the capacity of the       
  people of Appalachia to compete in the global economy; (3) Develop and               
  improve Appalachia's infrastructure to make the Region economically                  
  competitive; and (4) Build the Appalachian Development Highway System to             
  reduce Appalachia's isolation. Specific objectives were developed for each goal.     
  Grants are made either directly by the Commission or grants may supplement           
  other Federal grants.

TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Appalachian funds enable the States and local areas to develop networks of           
  facilities and services. Individual programs following this description illustrate   
  the types of investments that can be made. In considering programs and projects      
  to be given assistance under this Act, and in establishing a priority ranking of     
  the requests for assistance presented to the Commission (ARC), the ARC               
  follows procedures insuring consideration of the following factors: (1) The          
  relationship of the project or class of projects to overall regional development     
  and the reduction of economic distress; (2) the population and area to be served     
  including the relative per capita income and the unemployment rates in the area;     
  (3) the relative financial resources available to the State or political subdivision 
  or instrumentalities thereof which seek to undertake the project; (4) the            
  importance of the project or class of projects in relation to other activities which 
  may compete for the same funds; (5) the prospects that the project for which         
  assistance is sought will improve the opportunities for sustained employment,        
  income growth, or socioeconomic development of the area; and (6) the degree          
  and manner of private sector involvement. No financial assistance can be used to     
  assist establishments relocating from one area to another. Each State is required    
  to file a State Appalachian development plan, appraising prospects for               
  development in its Appalachian area and relating to them a strategic program for     
  which Appalachian funding is requested in that year. Once an application is          
  submitted for the individual projects and given final approval, the grant is         
  administered either by the basic Federal agency involved in that type of program     
  or directly by the ARC. The counties (including any political subdivision located    
  within such area)in which investment under the Appalachian Act (40 U.S.C.            
  14102) can be made are: in Alabama, the counties of Bibb, Blount, Calhoun,           
  Chambers, Cherokee, Chilton, Clay, Cleburne, Colbert, Coosa, Cullman,                
  DeKalb, Elmore, Etowah, Fayette, Franklin, Hale, Jackson, Jefferson, Lamar,          
  Lauderdale, Lawrence, Limestone, Macon, Madison, Marion, Marshall, Morgan,           
  Pickens, Randolph, Saint Clair, Shelby, Talladega, Tallapoosa, Tuscaloosa,           
  Walker, and Winston; in Georgia, the counties of Banks, Barrow, Bartow,              
  Carroll, Catoosa, Chattooga, Cherokee, Dade, Dawson, Douglas, Elbert, Fannin,        
  Floyd, Forsyth, Franklin, Gilmer, Gordon, Gwinnet, Habersham, Hall, Haralson,        
  Hart, Heard, Jackson, Lumpkin, Madison, Murray, Paulding, Pickens, Polk,             
  Rabun, Stephens, Towns, Union, Walker, White, and Whitfield; in Kentucky,            
  the counties of Adair, Bath, Bell, Boyd, Breathitt, Carter, Casey, Clark, Clay,      
  Clinton, Cumberland, Edmonson, Elliott, Estill, Fleming, Floyd, Garrard, Green,      
  Greenup, Harlan, Hart, Jackson, Johnson, Knott, Knox, Laurel, Lawrence, Lee,         
  Leslie, Letcher, Lewis, Lincoln, McCreary, Madison, Magoffin, Martin,                
  Menifee, Monroe, Montgomery, Morgan, Owsley, Perry, Pike, Powell, Pulaski,           
  Rockcastle, Rowan, Russell, Wayne, Whitley, and Wolfe; in Maryland, the              
  counties of Allegany, Garrett, and Washington; in Mississippi, the counties of       
  Alcorn, Benton, Calhoun, Chickasaw, Choctaw, Clay, Itawamba, Kemper, Lee,            
  Lowndes, Marshall, Montgomery, Monroe, Noxubee, Oktibbeha, Panola,                   
  Pontotoc, Prentiss, Tippah, Tishomingo, Union, Webster, Winston, and                 
  Yalobusha; in New York, the counties of Allegany, Broome, Cattaraugus,               
  Chautauqa, Chemung, Chenango, Cortland, Delaware, Otsego, Schoharie,                 
  Schuyler, Steuben, Tioga, and Tompkins; in North Carolina, the counties of           
  Alexander, Alleghany, Ashe, Avery, Buncombe, Burke, Caldwell, Cherokee,              


770                                                                              11-08

  Clay, Davie, Forsyth, Graham, Haywood, Henderson, Jackson, McDowell,
  Macon, Madison, Mitchell, Polk, Rutherford, Stokes, Surry, Swain,
  Transylvania, Watauga, Wilkes, Yadkin, and Yancey; in Ohio, the counties of
  Adams, Athens, Belmont, Brown, Carroll, Clermont, Columbiana,
  Coshocton,Gallia,Guernsey,Harrison, Highland, Hocking, Holmes, Jackson,
  Jefferson, Lawrence, Meigs, Monroe, Morgan, Muskingum, Noble, Perry, Pike,
  Ross, Scioto, Tuscarawas, Vinton, and Washington; in Pennsylvania, the
  counties of Allegheny, Armstrong, Beaver, Bedford, Blair, Bradford, Butler,
  Cambria, Cameron, Carbon, Centre, Clarion, Clearfield, Clinton, Columbia,
  Crawford, Elk, Erie, Fayette, Forest, Fulton, Greene, Huntingdon, Indiana,
  Jefferson, Juniata, Lackawanna, Lawrence, Luzerne, Lycoming, McKean,
  Mercer, Mifflin, Monroe, Montour, Northumberland, Perry, Pike, Potter,
  Schuylkill, Snyder, Somerset, Sullivan, Susquehanna, Tioga, Union, Venango,
  Warren, Washington, Wayne, Westmoreland, and Wyoming; in South Carolina,
  the counties of Anderson, Cherokee, Greenville, Oconee, Pickens, and
  Spartanburg; in Tennessee, the counties of Anderson, Bledsoe, Blount, Bradley,
  Campbell, Cannon, Carter, Claiborne, Clay, Cocke, Coffee, Cumberland, De
  Kalb, Fentress, Franklin, Grainger, Greene, Grundy, Hamblen, Hamilton,
  Hancock, Hawkins, Jackson, Jefferson, Johnson, Knox, Loudon, McMinn,
  Macon, Marion, Meigs, Monroe, Morgan, Overton, Pickett, Polk, Putman, Rhea,
  Roane, Scott, Sequatchie, Sevier, Smith, Sullivan, Unicoi, Union, Van Buren,
  Warren, Washington, and White; in Virginia, the counties of Alleghany, Bath,
  Bland, Botetourt, Buchanan, Carroll, Craig, Dickenson, Floyd, Giles, Grayson,
  Highland, Lee, Montgomery, Pulaski, Rockbridge, Russell, Scott, Smyth,
  Tazewell, Washington, Wise, and Wythe; all the counties of West Virginia.
Applicant Eligibility:
  States, and through the States, public bodies and private nonprofit organizations.
   All proposed projects must meet the requirements of the State Appalachian plan
  and the annual State strategy statement, both of which must be approved
  annually by the Commission.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  General public.
Credentials/Documentation:
  (See individual Appalachian program descriptions.)
Preapplication Coordination:
  General Nature and Administration of Appalachian Regional Development
  Program. The Appalachian Regional Development program is a joint Federal-
  State partnership for the development of the Appalachian region. Responsibility
  for the development of plans and programs authorized under the Act is vested in
  the ARC, composed of the 13 State Governors (who may appoint alternates) and
  a Federal Co-Chairman. General policies and procedures, and the allocation of
  Appalachian funds among the various programs and States are established by the
  ARC. Application for assistance may only be made through a State member of
  the ARC. The State Alternate's Offices are the coordinators for the Governors for
  Appalachian investments. Preapplication conferences can determine within a
  few weeks if the project conforms to the State Appalachian Development Plan.
  The appropriate local development district director should be the first contact.
  The State Alternate's Offices will provide guidance on specific problems and
  technical assistance in the preparation of applications. (See individual
  Appalachian program descriptions.) This program is excluded from coverage
  under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applications for individual projects must be submitted through and with the
  approval of the State Alternate to the Appalachian Regional Commission (listed
  in the appendix). (See individual Appalachian program description.)
Award Procedure:
  Upon receipt of project applications approved by the State, the Federal Co-
  Chairman determines that the project satisfies all requirements for assistance
  under the Act and approves the application. If a basic Federal agency will
  administer the project, it is then notified and will disburse funds when
  appropriate. The ARC notifies Congressional offices and the office of the
  Governor of grant awards. (See individual Appalachian program descriptions.)
Deadlines:
  (See individual Appalachian Program descriptions.)
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  (See individual Appalachian program descriptions.)
Appeals:
  There are no appeal procedures as such, project review allows for full and free
  interchange with applicants.
Renewals:
  Generally renewals are not applicable except for administrative expenses,
  including technical services, of local development districts (23.009).
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  See individual Appalachian program descriptions. This program has
  maintenance of effort (MOE) requirements; see funding agency for further
  details.
