Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                             
  Not applicable except for operating assistance beyond start-up and the first year
  of operation.                                                                    
Reports:                                                                           
  Reporting and performance monitoring as required by the basic Federal agency     
  or ARC for those programs directly administered by the Commission. The           
  Commission requires semi-annual reports of local development districts and       
  technical assistance grants and annual reports on housing grants. (See individual
  Appalachian program descriptions.)                                               
Audits:                                                                            
  Audits are required by the basic Federal agency and the Commission. In           
  accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (revised, June 27,      
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non- Profit Organizations,"     
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in      
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that 
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal       
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted 
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                           
Records:                                                                           
  Records generally are required by the basic Federal agency, but see local        
  development districts (23.009).                                                  
Account Identification:                                                            
  46-0200-0-1-452.                                                                 
Obligations:                                                                       
  FY 06 $ not separately identifiable. FY 07 $ not separately identifiable. FY 08  
  $ estimate not available. (Obligations under individual ARC programs).           
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                         
  None.                                                                            
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                           
  See individual Appalachian programs for output information.                      
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                           
  "The Appalachian Regional Commission Code" (limited distribution);               
  "Appalachian Regional Commission Project Guidelines" (limited distribution);     
  applicable State Appalachian Plans and Guidelines; "Appalachia" - a Journal      
  devoted to the special problems of regional development; Performance and         
  Accountability Reports, no charge.                                               
Regional or Local Office:                                                          
  See Appendix IV of the Catalog.                                                  
Headquarters Office:                                                               
  Inquiries and proposals for projects should be submitted to the Appalachian      
  State office designated by the Governor. See address appendix. Address other     
  inquiries to: Executive Director, Appalachian Regional Commission, 1666          
  Connecticut Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20009. Telephone: (202) 884-7700.        
  Use the same number for FTS.                                                     
Web Site Address:                                                                  
  http://www.arc.gov.                                                              
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                  
  11.300, Investments for Public Works and Economic Development Facilities;        
  11.307, Economic Adjustment Assistance.                                          
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                       
  See USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS.                                                   
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                  
  See APPLICATION AND AWARD PROCESS.

                                                                                   
                                                                                   
23.002 APPALACHIAN AREA DEVELOPMENT                                                
                                                                                   
   (Supplemental and Direct Grants)

                                                                                   
                                                                                   
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                    
  APPALACHIAN REGIONAL COMMISSION                                                  
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                     
  Appalachian Regional Development Act of 1965, Public Law 89-4, as amended,       
  40 U.S.C. 14101-14704; Appalachian Regional Development Act Amendments           
  of 2002, Public Law 107-149.                                                     
OBJECTIVES:                                                                        
  To help the regional economy become more competitive by putting in place the

                                                                                   
  building blocks for self-sustaining economic development, while continuing to

                                                                                   
  provide special assistance to the Region's most distressed counties and areas.

                                                                                   
  This program focuses on activities which support ARC's mission to be a

                                                                                   
  strategic partner and advocate for sustainable community and economic

                                                                                   
  development. Activities funded must advance ARC's strategic plan. Specific

                                                                                   
  program goals are: (1) Increase job opportunities and per capita income in

                                                                                   
  Appalachia to reach parity with the nation; (2) Strengthen the capacity of the   
  people of Appalachia to compete in the global economy; (3) Develop and           
  improve Appalachia's infrastructure to make the Region economically              
  competitive; and (4) Build the Appalachian Development Highway System to

                                                                                   
  reduce Appalachia's isolation. Specific objectives were developed for each goal. 
  Grants are made either directly by the Commission or grants may supplement       
  other Federal grants.                                                            
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                               
  Project Grants.

                                                                              11-08
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The grants may be used for providing supplemental funds under Federal grant-
  in-aid programs. To be eligible for special basic grants, projects must be of high
  priority in the State's Appalachian development plan and be either of critical
  importance to a phased investment and development program for a multicounty
  area, or of unusual economic benefit to such area. Refer to "General Provisions
  for Area Development Program" of the Appalachian Regional Commission Code
  for additional use restrictions.
Applicant Eligibility:
  States, their subdivisions and instrumentalities and private nonprofit agencies.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  General public.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Any finding, report, certification, or documentation required to be submitted to
  the head of the department, agency, or instrumentality of the Federal
  Government responsible for the administration of the basic Federal grant-in-aid
  program shall be accepted by the Federal Co-chairman with respect to a
  supplemental grant for any project under such program. Projects must conform
  to the ARC Code, the ARD Act, the State Appalachian Plan and annual State
  Strategy Statement. The Appalachian State Development Plan and the annual
  State Strategy Statement must be submitted by the Governors and approved by
  the Commission. Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular
  applicable to the grantee.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The State Alternate's Office is the coordinator for Appalachian investments.
  Preapplication conferences with the Appalachian local district director or the
  State Alternate's Office can determine within a few weeks if the project can be
  related to the State Appalachian development plan. The State Alternate's Office
  will provide guidance on specific problems and technical assistance in
  preparation of applications. An environmental impact statement may be
  required for this program, depending on the basic Federal grant-in-aid program
  being assisted. The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal
  agency and required by OMB Circular No. A-102 must be used for this program.
   This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Application must be submitted and approved by the State member of the ARC.
  All proposed projects must conform to the State Strategy Statement submitted
  annually prior to the Fall Commission meeting. Guidelines and forms for
  funding Appalachian development projects are available from the local
  development district director and the State Alternate's Office. A letter of
  transmittal signed by the State member and an executed ARC Form 1 is required
  with the submission.
Award Procedure:
  Upon determination that the State approved project is eligible within a
  Commission approved Appalachian State Development Plan and Strategy
  Statement, the Federal Co-Chairman determines that the project satisfies all
  Federal requirements. If a basic Federal agency will administer the project it is
  then notified and will disburse the grant funds when appropriate. The ARC
  notifies Congressional Offices and the Office of the Governor of grant awards.
Deadlines:
  Proposed projects are submitted by the States and must be submitted according
  to deadlines set by each State.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 30 to 60 days after the receipt of the application at the Commission.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Generally grants are limited to 50% of project costs. For projects in counties
  designated as economically distressed, this limit can be raised to 80%. For
  projects in counties designated as competitive (those that are approaching
  national economic norms), funding is usually limited to 30% of project costs.
  Funding is usually not available for projects located in counties that have
  attained or exceeded national economic norms. If otherwise eligible for funding,
  projects involving construction assistance for housing under the Appalachian
  Regional Development Act (ARDA) (40 U.S.C. 14503) cannot exceed 10% of
  total project costs regardless of location. Health operations continuation projects
  under ARDA (40 U.S.C. 14502) are limited to 75% of project costs after the
  second year of operations, even in distressed counties. The ARC Code and
  "Appalachian Regional Commission Project Guidelines" furnish details.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Assistance is provided until completion; funds are transferred to the basic
  Federal agency and disbursed as appropriate. ARC reserves the right to
  withdraw grants for projects not under contract within 18 months of approval.
Reports:
  Reporting and performance monitoring as required by the basic Federal agency
  or the Commission, as appropriate.
Audits:
  Audits as required by the basic Federal agency and the Commission. In
                                                                                   771
