  accordance with the Single Audit Act Amendments of 1996, Public Law 104-          
  156. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,        
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit               
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000  
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit          
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a     
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,  
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.                                            
Records:                                                                            
  Records as required by the basic Federal agency. Under the total audit concept,   
  audits will be made on an organization-wide basis (rather than grant-by-grant)    
  under GAO guidelines, Standards for Audit of Governmental Organizations,          
  Programs, Activities and Functions, and for programs covered by A-102,            
  Attachment P.                                                                     
Account Identification:                                                             
  46-0200-0-1-452.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  FY 07 $58,917,132; FY 08 est $73,000,000; and FY 09 est not reported.             
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  $1 to $1,782,000; $38,102.                                                        
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  In fiscal year 2007, 493 projects were approved. The States concentrated efforts  
  on meeting a variety of pressing needs in the Region including projects for water 
  and sewer systems, industrial parks, entrepreneurship, training, vocational       
  education, leadership, export promotion, health care, child development,          
  revolving loans, and business incubators, in conjunction with private sector      
  commitments.                                                                      
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  "The Appalachian Regional Commission Code" (limited distribution);                
  "Appalachian Regional Commission Project Guidelines" (limited distribution);      
  applicable State Appalachian Plans and Guidelines; "Appalachia" - a journal       
  devoted to the special problems of regional development; Performance and          
  Accountability Report, no charge.                                                 
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  Refer to Appendix IV of the Catalog.                                              
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Inquiries and proposals for projects should be submitted first to the Appalachian 
  State office designated by the Governor. (See Appendix IV of the Catalog.)        
  Other inquiries may be addressed to: Executive Director, Appalachian Regional     
  Commission, 1666 Connecticut Avenue, N.W., Washington, DC 20009.                  
  Telephone: (202) 884- 7700. Use the same number for FTS.                          
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  http://www.arc.gov .                                                              
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  84.048, Career and Technical Education -- Basic Grants to States.                 
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  See USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS.                                                    
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                   
  See APPLICATION AND AWARD PROCESS.                                                
                                                                                    
23.003 APPALACHIAN DEVELOPMENT HIGHWAY                                              
                                                                                    
SYSTEM                                                                              
      (Appalachian Corridors)                                                       
                                                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     
  APPALACHIAN REGIONAL COMMISSION                                                   
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                      
  Appalachian Regional Development Act of 1965, Section 201, Public Law 89-4,       
  as amended, 40 U.S.C. 14501.                                                      
OBJECTIVES:                                                                         
  To provide a highway system which, in conjunction with other federally-aided      
  highways, will open up areas with development potential within Appalachia         
  where commerce and communication have been inhibited by lack of adequate          
  access.                                                                           
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                
  Project Grants.                                                                   
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                          
  The grants may be used for preliminary engineering, right-of-way, and             
  construction of highways meeting the objectives stated above. Total highway       
  construction may not exceed 3,090 miles for the 13-State system. The highways     
  must be accepted and maintained as a Federal-aid highway. Refer to general use    
  restrictions stated in the Appalachian Regional Development program (23.001).     
Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  State governments only are eligible for development highways within their         
  Appalachian portions.                                                             
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                            
  General public.                                                                   
Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  Segments must be approved by the ARC and projects must be processed in            


772                                                                           11-08

  accordance with State Highway department and Federal Highway
  Administration procedures.
Preapplication Coordination:
  An environmental impact statement is required for this program. The standard
  application forms as furnished by the Federal agency and required by OMB
  Circular No. A-102 must be used for this program. The State highway
  department coordinates with the Federal Highway Administration, Department
  of Transportation (DOT), as in the case of federally aided highway construction.
  The District Director or State Alternate's Office will provide guidance on
  specific problems and technical assistance in the preparation of applications.
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  The ARC has established a corridor system. The Appalachian State office
  designated by the State Member submits an application for construction within
  this system to the Commission for consideration. ARC must concur in detailed
  highway locations and construction centerlines. Upon such approval, State
  highway departments may submit plans to implement projects to the State-level
  office of Federal Highway Administration. This program is excluded from
  coverage under OMB Circular No. A-110.
Award Procedure:
  Upon determination that the State approved project is eligible within a
  Commission approved Appalachian Highway Plan, the Federal Co-chairman
  notifies FHWA of centerline approval after determining that the project satisfies
  all Federal requirements. The Department of Transportation is then notified,
  administers the grants and disburses the funds.
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Usually within 60 days after the receipt of the application at the Commission.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Funding for work on the Appalachian Development Highway System is allowed
  at 80%, wherever the project is located. The ARC Code and ARC Project
  Guidelines furnish details.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Assistance is provided as required.
Reports:
  The Federal Highway Administration provides the ARC with periodic reports on
  the progress and status of projects. Each participating State makes fiscal year
  reports to the Commission of its allocations expected to be obligated during the
  fiscal year with the following information concerning each project to be funded:
  highway corridor segment description, project number, type of work, and
  estimated cost.
Audits:
  The Federal Highway Administration, DOT, supervises audits for the
  Commission. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133
  (revised, June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Records and time of record maintenance as required by the Federal Highway
  Administration, DOT.
Account Identification:
  46-0200-0-1-452.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $423,820,097; FY 08 est $470,000,000; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Ranges and averages vary with type of use. Allocations are within
  predetermined system of highways. Funding is provided from the Highway
  Trust Fund authorized in SAFETEA-LU.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  At the end of fiscal year 2007, 2,655 miles were fully completed or under
  construction and open to traffic. This represents 86 percent of the total mileage
  authorized for the system.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  The ARC Code (limited distribution); "Appalachian Regional Commission
  Project Guidelines" (limited distribution); applicable State Appalachian Plans
  and Guidelines; "Appalachia" a journal devoted to the special problems of
  regional development; Performance and Accountability Reports, no charge.
Regional or Local Office:
  Refer to Appendix IV of the Catalog.
Headquarters Office:
  Inquiries and proposals for projects should be submitted first to the Appalachian
  State office designated by the Governor. (See Appendix IV of the Catalog.)
