Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  States and local public bodies.                                                    
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Projects must conform to the Appalachian Regional Commission Strategic Plan.       
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State        
  and local governments.                                                             
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  The Appalachian Regional Commission reviews and prioritizes research and           
  evaluation projects necessary to further the goals of the agency's strategic plan. 
  The Executive Director approves individual projects. This program is excluded      
  from coverage under E.O. 12372.                                                    
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Candidates with subject matter expertise can respond to publicly advertised        
  requests for proposals. Requests for proposals are located on the ARC website:     
  www.arc.gov. The Commission, comprised of the Federal Co-Chair and the 13          
  State governors, review and prioritize research projects to be completed each      
  year. This program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110.         
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Upon determination that the approved project is eligible within a Commission       
  approved Appalachian Strategic Plan, the Federal Co-chairman and Executive         
  Director determines that the project satisfies all Federal requirements.           
Deadlines:                                                                           
  None, except those imposed by each State and the general requirement of the        
  Commission.                                                                        
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  From 36 to 60 days after the receipt of the application at the Commission.         
Appeals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Renewals:

  Yes, processed in the same manner as the original application.

Formula and Matching Requirements:

  A limited amount of discretionary authority is made available to the

  Commission under (40 U.S.C. 14321) of the Appalachian Regional

  Development Act. Annually the Commission allocates this authority to the Co-

  Chairmen's Committee and among the Appalachian States. The authority can be

  used to raise the statutory limits on ARC funding in projects implementing

  special regional initiatives approved by the Commission. It can also be used,

  with the approval of the Co-Chairmen's Committee, in cases of emergency

  economic distress. This discretionary authority, however, cannot be used to

  eliminate the funding restrictions on projects in competitive and attainment

  counties.

Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

  Usually 12 months. Assistance is provided as required.

Reports:

  A member of the Commission staff is designated as project coordinator to

  maintain liaison with the contractor, and monitor and evaluate progress and

  performance under the contract.

Audits:

  As required by the Commission, in accordance with the Single Audit Act

  Amendments of 1996, Public Law 104-156. In accordance with the provisions

  of OMB Circular No. A-133 (revised, June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local

  Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend

  financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have a single or

  a program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that

  expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt form Federal

  audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.

Records:

  As required by the terms of the contract.

Account Identification:

  46-0200-0-1-452.

Obligations:

  FY 07 $763,536; and FY 08 est $1,000,000; and FY 09 est not reported.

Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

  $6 to $239,706; $13,234.

PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

  The fiscal year 2006 program included initial or continued support of the

  following topics: Assessment of the National and State Energy Policy Trends:

  Appalachian Regional Energy Blueprint Research Brief; Non-Renewable Energy

  Innovation, Research to Support the Appalachian Energy Initiative; Assessment

  of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy in Appalachia: Policy and

  Potential; Economic Development Potential of Conventional and Potential

  Alternative Sources in Appalachian Counties; An Evaluation of the Outcomes of

  the ARC-Oak Ridge National Laboratory Summer Math/Science/Technology

  Institutes; Initial Design Study for Impact Assessment of Completing the ADHS;

  An Assessment of Economic Base of Distressed and Transitional Counties in the

  Appalachian Region; Assessment of Access to Capital and Credit in the

  Appalachian Region: An Examination of Regional Performance and Gaps in

  Lending, Bank Services and Development Finance; A Program Evaluation of

  ARC's Infrastructure and Public Works Projects; An Analysis of the College-

  going and Perseverance Rates in Appalachia; Continuity and Change in



774                                                                            11-08

  Appalachia: An Analysis of Long Form Decennial Census Data for Trends in
  Family Income, Inequality, Earnings and Skill Levels, and Consumption
  Measures of Quality of Life; Assessment of Socioeconomic Correlates of Health
  Disparities in the Appalachian Region; Assessment of the Role of Highway
  Investments on Economic Growth in Appalachia, 1969-2000: Update and
  Extension of Twin County Growth Study.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  "The Appalachian Regional Commission Code" (limited distribution);
  "Appalachian Regional Commission Project Guidelines" (limited distribution);
  "Appalachia" a journal devoted to the special problems of regional development
  (no charge); Research Program Prospectus (limited distribution) Performance
  and Accountability Report.
Regional or Local Office:
  Refer to Appendix IV of the Catalog.
Headquarters Office:
  Inquiries and proposals for projects should be submitted first to the Appalachian
  State office designated by the Governor. (See Appendix IV of the Catalog).
  Other inquiries may be addressed to: Executive Director, Appalachian Regional
  Commission, 1666 Connecticut Avenue, N.W., Washington, DC 20009.
  Telephone: (202) 884-7700. Use the same number for FTS.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.arc.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  See USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  See APPLICATION AND AWARD PROCESS.
