  organizations representing employees of a covered employer are prohibited from      
  causing or attempting to cause employers to violate the Act. Exceptions are         
  permitted only where payment is made pursuant to a seniority system, a merit        
  system, a system that measures earnings by quantity or quality of production, or    
  a differential based on any other factor other than sex. The Commission may         
  investigate allegations of violations of the Act and may initiate and conduct       
  litigation.                                                                         
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  An employee on behalf of herself or himself and other employees similarly           
  situated who believes s/he has been paid in violation of the Equal Pay Act in any   
  State of the United States, the District of Columbia, or any territory or           
  possession of the United States.

Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Individuals covered by the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended.

Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  None.                                                                               
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                      
Application Procedure:                                                                
  A charge may be filed either orally or in writing to the appropriate field office of
  the EEOC listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog. (The names of persons filing         
  complaints are held in confidence.)                                                 
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Deadlines:                                                                            
  A 2-year statute of limitations applies to the recovery of any amounts owing to a   
  person as a result of violation of this Act (may be extended to 3 years in cases of 
  willful violations). There is no agency notification requirement for individuals    
  desiring to bring their own suit under the Equal Pay Act.                           
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Not applicable.

                                                                                      
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

                                                                                      
  Not applicable.

                                                                                      
Reports:

  Not applicable.                                                                     
Audits:                                                                               
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Records:                                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Account Identification:                                                               
  45-0100-0-1-751.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Salaries and expenses) Not seperately identifiable.                                
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  In fiscal year 2005, received 774 complaints and resolved 889 monetarily            
  benefitiing 161 people iin the sum of $3,072,871. In fiscal year 2005, EEOC         
  filed 13 lawsuits on the merits raising EPA issues either as a sole statute or      
  concurrent with other statutes and resolved no EPA merits suits with EPA as the     
  sole statute but resolved 17 suits with EPA concurrent with other statutes with     
  monetary benefits of $2,328,000. Projected data unavailable for fiscal years        
  2006.                                                                               
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Publications are furnished free in limited quantities. 29 CFR Part 1620, Equal      
  Pay Act Interpretive Regulations and 29 CFR Part 1621, Equal Pay Act                
  Procedural Regulations; Compliance Manual Section: "Threshold Issues;"              
  Compliance Manual Section: "Retaliation;" Compliance Manual Section:                
  "Compensation Discrimination;" Compliance Manual Section: "Employee                 
  Benefits" as revised,     August 20, 2001. Contact: Publications Distribution       
  Center, 1-800-669-3362 (Voice) and 1-800-800-3302 (TTY). Web Site                   
  www.eeoc.gov; EEOC, 1801 L Street, NW, Washington, DC 20507.                        
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Persons should contact the nearest office of EEOC listed in Appendix IV of the      
  Catalog.                                                                            
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Office of Communications and Legislative Affairs, Communications Staff,             
  Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, 1801 L Street, NW., Washington,            
  DC 20507. Telephone: (202) 663-4900 (Voice) or (202) 663-4494 (TTY).                
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.eeoc.gov.                                                                
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  16.101, Equal Employment Opportunity; 16.200, Community Relations Service;          
  17.301, Non-Discrimination and Affirmative Action by Federal Contractors and        
  Federally Assisted Construction Contractors; 17.303, Wage and Hour Standards;       


                                                                                 11-08
  17.700, Women's Bureau; 29.001, Clearinghouse Services, Civil Rights
  Discrimination Complaints; 30.001, Employment Discrimination_Title VII of
  the Civil Rights Act of 1964; 30.002, Employment Discrimination_State and
  Local Fair Employment Practices Agency Contracts; 30.008, Employment
  Discrimination_Age Discrimination in Employment; 30.011, Employment
  Discrimination_Title I of The Americans with Disabilities Act; 93.001, Civil
  Rights and Privacy Rule Compliance Activities.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
30.011 EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION-TITLE I OF
THE AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Americans with Disabilities Act, Titles I & V, as amended, Public Law 101-336,
  42 U.S.C. 12101-12117; 12201-12213; Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended,
  29 U.S.C. 501, 505.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide for enforcement of the Federal prohibition against employment
  discrimination by private employers and local governments against qualified
  individuals with disabilities.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Advisory Services and Counseling; Investigation of Complaints.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Individuals are protected from discrimination on the basis of disability by
  employers with 15 or more employees, by Federal, state, and local governments,
  by employment agencies, and by labor organizations. Charges of discriminatory
  employment practices by or on behalf of an individual or group of individuals
  claiming to be aggrieved are received. Mediation of the dispute may be offered.
  If mediation is not used or is not successful, investigations ensue. If reasonable
  cause is not found, the Commission issues a right to sue letter. If reasonable
  cause is found, the charge is conciliated. If conciliation proves to be
  unsuccessful and the employer is not a State or local government, the
  Commission may bring a civil action against respondent(s) named in the charge
  or issue a right to sue letter. If conciliation fails on a charge against a State or
  local government, EEOC refers the case to the Department of Justice for
  consideration of litigation or issuance of a right to sue letter.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Any aggrieved individual, or any individual, or any labor union, association,
  legal representative, or organization filing on behalf of an aggrieved individual,
  who has reason to believe that an unlawful employment practice within the
  meaning of Title I of the ADA has been committed by an employer with 15 or
  more employees, an employment agency, labor organization, or joint labor-
  management committee controlling apprenticeship or other training or
  retraining.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Applicants, current employees, and former employees of the named respondents
  in a charge who have been subjected to unlawful employment practices.
Credentials/Documentation:
  An allegation of unlawful employment practice(s) may be made in person or by
  mail. An allegation must be in writing, signed, and notarized (only when
  necessary to meet State and local requirements) or supported by an unsworn
  declaration in writing under penalty of perjury. Charge forms (EEOC Form 5,
  Charge of Discrimination) are available to all persons from all field offices of the
  Commission.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  A charge may be filed by any aggrieved individual, any individual on behalf of
  an aggrieved individual, or by any organization, i.e., labor union, association,
  legal representative, etc., either as an entity or on behalf of an aggrieved
  individual. Charges may be filed either by mail or in person at the approrpiate
  field office of the EEOC.
Award Procedure:
  A charge is sufficient when the Commission receives from the person making
  the charge a written statement sufficiently precise to identify the parties and to
  describe generally the action or practices complained of.
Deadlines:
  Individuals who wish to assert their rights under the ADA must file a charge of
  discrimination with the EEOC within 180 days of the alleged unlawful practice
  (or within 300 days if there is a State or local agency in a State with its own
  discrimination law). When EEOC completes its investigation without obtaining
  relief for persons covered by a charge, covered persons will be given written
  notice of their right to sue. Persons can also ask for a notice of right to sue
  before EEOC finishes its investigation. When a right to sue is issued on request,
  EEOC usually stops investigating. Suit must be brought within 90 days of
                                                                                    785
