  promoting one or more public purposes, such as conservation, parks and              
  recreation, education, public health, public safety, economic development and       
  programs for older individuals; by certain nonprofit, tax-exempt activities for     
  public health or educational purposes, including research for such purposes, and    
  for use in programs for older individuals; or by public airports for airport        
  development, operation or maintenance. Federal restrictions require that, at a      
  minimum, all surplus property be placed into use by the donee within 1 year of      
  acquisition and be used at least for 1 year thereafter. Other restrictions, terms   
  and conditions are imposed by GSA and the agencies determining eligibility          
  (shown under Applicant Eligibility, section below)for items with original           
  acquisition value above $5,000 and for certain commodities, such as vehicles        
  and aircraft.                                                                       
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  (a) State participation is contingent upon the acceptance by the General Services   
  Administration (GSA) of a State plan of operation as being in conformance with      
  Public Law 107-217. This State plan must establish a State agency which is          
  responsible for the distribution of Federal surplus personal property to eligible   
  recipients within the State on a fair and equitable basis. Eligible donee           
  categories for the distribution of property through the State Agencies for Surplus  
  Property are defined as: (1) Public agencies which include any (i) State or         
  department, agency, or instrumentality thereof; (ii) political subdivision of the   
  State, including any unit of local government or economic development district,     
  or any department, agency or instrumentality thereof; (iii) instrumentality         
  created by compact or other agreement between State or political subdivisions;      
  (iv) multijurisdictional sub-State district established by or pursuant to State law;
  and (v) Indian tribe, band, group, pueblo, or community located on a State          
  reservation. Eligibility for public agencies is determined by the State Agency for  
  Surplus Property. (2) Nonprofit, tax-exempt activities such as schools, colleges,   
  universities, public libraries, schools for the mentally challenged or physically   
  challenged, educational radio or TV stations, child care centers, museums,          
  medical institutions, hospitals, clinics, health centers, drug abuse treatment      
  centers, providers of assistance to the homeless, providers of assistance to the    
  impoverished and programs for older individuals. (b) Service educational            
  activities as determined by the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense (L/SCI). (c)      
                                                                                      
  Public airports. Eligibility is determined by the Federal Aviation Administration.

                                                                                      
Beneficiary Eligibility:

  State and local public agencies; nonprofit educational or public health             
  institutions or organizations, including providers of assistance to the homeless;   
                                                                                      
  nonprofit and public programs for the elderly; educational activities of special

                                                                                      
  interest to the armed services; and public airports.

                                                                                      
Credentials/Documentation:

  Contact appropriate State or Federal agency shown under Applicant Eligibility

  section of this program.                                                            
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  (1) Public agencies, nonprofit educational and public health applicants,

  providers of assistance to the homeless, providers of assistance to the             
  impoverished and programs for the elderly coordinate with the State Agency for

  Surplus Property. (2) Service Educational Activity schools and national             
  organizations coordinate with their sponsoring military service or national         
  headquarters. (3) Public airports coordinate with the regional Airports District    
                                                                                      
  Office of the Federal Aviation Administration. This program is excluded from

                                                                                      
  coverage under E.O. 12372.

                                                                                      
Application Procedure:

                                                                                      
  Contact appropriate agency shown under Preapplication Coordination section of

                                                                                      
  this program.

                                                                                      
Award Procedure:

                                                                                      
  Upon determination of eligibility, applicant maintains contact with the

                                                                                      
  appropriate agency shown under Preapplication Coordination section of this

                                                                                      
  program.

                                                                                      
Deadlines:

                                                                                      
  None.

Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Appeals:                                                                              
  Applicants participating through State agencies for surplus property may appeal     
  a determination of ineligibility through the State agency for review by GSA.        
Renewals:                                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Reports:                                                                              
  Prescribed by agencies shown under Applicant Eligibility section of this            
  program.                                                                            
Audits:                                                                               
  Prescribed by agencies shown under Applicant Eligibility section of this            
  program.                                                                            
Records:                                                                              
  Prescribed by agencies shown under Applicant Eligibility section of this            


                                                                                 11-08
  program.
Account Identification:
  47-0110-0-1-804.
Obligations:
  FY 07 est $11,507,000; FY 08 est $12,645,000; and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  None.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In fiscal year 2007, property with an acquisition cost of $473 million was
  donated. In fiscal year 2008, property with an acquisition cost of $380 million
  was donated. In fiscal year 2009, the estimate is $430 million.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  41 CFR 102-37, "Donation of Surplus Personal Property," available for purchase
  from Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, Washington,
  DC 20402. Pamphlet, "The Federal Surplus Personal Property Donation
  Program," available from General Services Administration at no charge.
Regional or Local Office:
  Initial contacts (except Service Educational Activities) should be at regional or
  local level. See Appendix IV of the Catalog for addresses of GSA Federal
  Acquisition Service Regional Property Division serving the geographical area of
  interest. Individual units of Service Educational Activities national
  organizations such as Boy Scout or Girl Scout troops, Boys and Girls Clubs, etc.,
  should contact their regional or national headquarters; Service Educational
  Activity Schools should contact their sponsoring military service.
Headquarters Office:
  Director, Office of Personal Property Management, Office of General Supplies
  and Services, Federal Acquisition Service, General Services Administration,
  Washington, DC 20406. Telephone: (703) 605-5610. Information concerning
  the designation of Service Educational Activities can be obtained from the
  Deputy Under Secretary of Defense, (L/MDM) Production and Logistics, The
  Pentagon, Washington, DC, 20301.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.gsa.gov/property
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  12.700, Donations/Loans of Obsolete DOD Property; 39.002, Disposal of
  Federal Surplus Real Property; 39.007, Sale of Federal Surplus Personal
  Property.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  None.
39.007 SALE OF FEDERAL SURPLUS PERSONAL
PROPERTY
   (Sales Program)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Law 81-152, 63 Stat. 377, 40 U.S.C. 541 et. seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  To sell personal property no longer needed by the Government in an expeditious,
  economical and efficient manner and to obtain the maximum net return from
  sales. General Services Administration conducts the sale of personal property for
  most of the civil agencies; the Department of Defense handles the sale of its own
  surplus property.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  This program provides individuals, business concerns, and other organizations
  with the opportunity to enter competitive bids for purchase of a wide variety of
  personal property whenever it is determined surplus to the needs of the Federal
  Government and available for sale. Included are vehicles, aircraft, hardware,
  electronic and medical equipment, furniture, office supplies and equipment,
  exotic gifts and collectables, and many other items. This program has been
  expanded offering assets available to the general public via online capabilities.
  GSA Auctions (www.gsaauctions.gov) provides the general public with an
  Internet website to bid electronically on a wide variety of federal personal
  property. The website allows GSA to offer assets located across the country to
  any interested buyer, regardless of location. GSA Auctions provides item
  descriptions and pictures of items available for sale. Sucessful bidders can also
  make payments online. Normally, there are no use restrictions on property
  purchased from the Government.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Competitive bid sales are open to the general public, however bidders must be at
  least 18 years of age. Individuals cannot successfully register to bid on items
  without providing a TIN. A TIN is defined as an individual's Social Security
  Number (SSN) or business entity's Employer Identification Number (PIN).
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  General public.
Credentials/Documentation:
                                                                                 793
