  A credit card is required for all registered users in our online community. Credit   
  card validation assists in the prevention of fraudulent bidding activity and         
  ensures that bidders are prepared to accept responsibility for their bidding         
  activity and all submitted bids are valid. This card number is recorded but will     
  not be automatically charged if a bidder is the successful bidder of an item. For    
  security reasons and to prevent fraudulent bidding activities, all registered        
  bidders are subject to billing address verification. No P.O. Box address will be     
  accepted unless accompanied by a street address. By entering the credit card         
  information, you are attesting you are an authorized user of the card. It is         
  required that the bidder creates and secures their username and password.            
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                             
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Interested individuals may participate in GSA sales of Federal personal property     
  by visiting the GSA Auctions website at www.gsaauctions.gov, or may visit            
  www.surplussales.fss.gov for information on sales not conducted on the internet.     
   Also, information is available at the Federal Asset Sales website at                
  www.govsales.gov.                                                                    
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  Property is awarded to that responsible bidder whose bid, conforming to the          
  invitation, is most advantageous to the Government, price and other factors          
  considered. For internet sales, the successful bidders will be notified by email     
  and must make payment within 2 business days from the date & time the award          
  email notification was sent. Bid results from other sale types may be furnished      
  by U.S. mail notification, via telephone, fax, or at www.surplussales.fss.gsa.gov    
  . It is the bidder's responsibility to follow-up on the status of his/her bid and to 
  ensure that his/her email address and all registration data are kept accurate and

  up-to-date.                                                                          
Deadlines:

  None. Bids must be submitted by the time and date indicated in the sales             
  offering.                                                                            
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  It is the policy of GSA Auctions to monitor bids and other activity to ensure the    
  proper use of our site. The Government reserves the right to reject any and all      
  bids. Bids can be rejected for any reason, especially those containing inaccurate,   
  incomplete or None. It is the policy of GSA Auctions to monitor bids and other       
  activity to ensure the proper use of our site. The Government reserves the right     
  to reject any and all bids. Bids can be rejected for any reason, especially those    
  containing inaccurate, incomplete or unverifiable information, or information        
  which is deemed to have been given in bad faith. Indebted bidders will be            
  ineligible for contract awards. Bidders will not be able to bid on items specified   
  on GSA Auctions until all debts have been cleared, and will not be awarded           
  items when participating in other methods of sale, such as sealed bid or fixed       
                                                                                       
  price.

                                                                                       
Appeals:

                                                                                       
  Disputes, claims and/or refunds request are not a frequent issues at GSA.

                                                                                       
  Contracts resulting from the sale of any offer, and particularly GSA Auctions are

                                                                                       
  subject to the Contract Disputes Act of 1978 (41 U.S.C. 601-613), A claim or

                                                                                       
  request for refund must be substantiated in writing to the Contracting Officer for

                                                                                       
  issues regarding mis-described property, missing property and voluntary

                                                                                       
  defaults.

                                                                                       
Renewals:

                                                                                       
  If at any time, a participants information changes, it is their responsibility to

                                                                                       
  update the appropriate information with GSA and in GSA Auctions.

                                                                                       
Formula and Matching Requirements:

  None.                                                                                
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  None.                                                                                
Reports:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                
Audits:                                                                                
  None.                                                                                
Records:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                
Account Identification:                                                                
  47-4530-0-4-804.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  (Salaries and expenses) FY 07 $16,129,000; FY 08 $23,999,000; and FY 09              
  $24,476,000.                                                                         
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  None.                                                                                
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  In fiscal year 2006, gross proceeds from sales were $76.9 million. In fiscal year    
  2007, gross proceeds from sales were $169.5 million. In fiscal year 2008, the        
  estimate is $131 million.                                                            
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  41 CFR 101-45, Sale, Abandonment, or Destruction of Personal Property. FMR           
  102-38, Sale of Personal Property. FMR 102-39, Replacement of Personal               
  Property Pursuant to the Exchange/Sale Authority. Pamphlet "For Public Sale!         
  Used Federal Government Personal Property."                                          
                                                                                       
794                                                                              11-08

Regional or Local Office:
  Federal Supply Service, General Services Administration, (select address from
  Appendix IV of the Catalog for the GSA Federal Acquisition Services, Office of
  Personal Property Management Sales Program Division which serves the
  geographical area of interest); or Defense Reutilization and Marketing Service
  (for Department of Defense surplus property), National Sales Office, 74
  Washington Ave. North, Battle Creek, MI 49017-3092. Internet:
  http://www.gsa.gov.
Headquarters Office:
  GSA Federal Acquisition Service, Office of Personal Property Management,
  Sales Program Division, 2200 Crystal Drive, Crystal Plaza 4, Suite 703,
  Arlington, VA 22202 or Defense Reutilization and Marketing Service (for
  Department of Defense surplus proprerty), National Sales Office, 74 Washington
  Ave, North, Battle Creek, MI 49017-3092. Headquarters Office: Director,
  Office of Personal Property Management, Office of General Supplies and
  Services, Federal Acquisition Service, General Services Administration,
  Washington, DC 20406. Telephone: (703) 605-5610.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.gsa.gov ; www.gsaauctions.gov; and www.govsales.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  12.700, Donations/Loans of Obsolete DOD Property; 20.805, Ship Sales;
  39.003, Donation of Federal Surplus Personal Property.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  None.
39.009 FEDERAL CITIZEN INFORMATION CENTER
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Executive Order 11566, October 26, 1970; Public Law 95-491, 40 U.S.C. 751.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide citizens direct access to information about and from their
  government through an array of information channels including USA.gov and
  other targeted websites, the National Contact Center, and print materials
  distributed through Pueblo, Colorado. Also provides agencies government-wide
  with easy and cost-effective access to contact center services through the USA
  Contact. Also provides guidance and support to web and contact center
  managers across the government through Web Manager University and through
  the organization and management of interagency steering committees.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Dissemination of Technical Information.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Maintains a nationwide toll-free contact center to respond to telephone and e-
  mail inquiries from the general public regarding Federal programs or activities.
  Maintains several websites including USA.gov, pueblo.gsa.gov kids.gov, and
  consumeraction.gov. USA.gov is the official Internet portal to all U.S.
  government information and services. It is the most comprehensive place
  available online for U.S. government information and services, including federal
  grants and loans. The Pueblo site provides access to the full text of hundreds of
  the most helpful and popular federal documents and links to thousands of useful
  federal and private sector sites. Provides a quarterly catalog of selected
  government and private sector publications of consumer interest in English.
  Publishes the Consumer Action Handbook, which helps the public find the best
  source for solving consumer problems.
Applicant Eligibility:
  General public.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  General public.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  For responses to questions about the Federal government, call the Federal
  Citizen Information Center at 1 (800) FED INFO (333-4636) from 8:00 a.m. to
  8:00 p.m. eastern time, Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays.
  Recorded responses to the most popular topics are always available. For access
  to federal government information online or to e-mail an inquiry about
  government services, visit USA.gov. For printed materials, visit
  www.pueblo.gsa.gov to read or order publications online, or call 1-888-8-
  PUEBLO (878-3256), or write to the Federal Citizen Information Center,
  Pueblo, CO 81009. To subscribe to free e-mail newsletters, visit USA.gov or to
  subscribe to the free quarterly Catalog, visit www.pueblo.gsa.gov.
Award Procedure:
  None.
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
