  None.                                                                              
Appeals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  None.                                                                              
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  None.                                                                              
Reports:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Audits:                                                                              
  None.

                                                                                     
Records:

                                                                                     
  None.

                                                                                     
Account Identification:

  47-4549-0-3-376.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Salaries and expenses) FY 07 $14,789,000; FY 08 $17,328,000; and FY 09 est        
  $36,558,000 for FCIC. (Note: In addition to these amounts, other Federal           
  agencies and private sector entities pay the cost of reimbursing the Government    
                                                                                     
  Printing Office for distribution of free consumer publications from Pueblo,

                                                                                     
  Colorado and for providing contact center services. These costs are as follows:

                                                                                     
  FY 07 $13,890,000; FY 08 est $10,167,000 ; and FY 09 est $10,450,000. Public

                                                                                     
  Law 98-63 established a revolving fund for the Consumer Information Center

                                                                                     
  (CIC). Under this fund, FCIC activities are financed from the following: Annual

                                                                                     
  appropriations from the general funds of the Treasury, reimbursements from

                                                                                     
  agencies for distribution of publications and contact center services, user fees

                                                                                     
  collected from the public, gifts to defray the cost of printing, publishing, and

                                                                                     
  distributing informational and educational materials and any other income

                                                                                     
  incident to FCIC activities. All are available as authorized in appropriation acts

                                                                                     
  without regard to fiscal year limitations.).

                                                                                     
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

  None.                                                                              
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  During fiscal year 2007, the Federal Citizen Information Center had more than      
  222 million citizen touchpoints through a variety of channels including USA.gov    
  and other websites, the National Contact Center program, distribution of printed   
  materials through Pueblo, CO, as well as e-mail and web chat inquiries and         
  subscription mailings. In support of these efforts, FCIC prepared and distributed  
  4 editions of the Consumer Information Catalog, maintained and enhanced the        
  websites, produced and distributed a new edition of the Consumer Action            
  Handbook along with the first Spanish language edition, prepared and               
  distributed news releases and public service announcements to broadcast and        
  print outlets, continued to distribute consumer publications nationwide, and       
  continued to respond to citizen inquiries through a toll-free contact center and e-
  mail from the public directed to USA.gov.                                          
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  With a few exceptions, services and printed materials obtained through the         
  Federal Citizen Information Center are free to the public. Some government         
  publications listed in the Catalog are offered for sale at prices indicated and    
  there is a user fee of $2.00 per total order when ordering free publications       
  through the Catalog via telephone or mail.                                         
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Director, Federal Citizen Information Center, General Services Administration,     
  1800 F Street, NW (XCC) Washington, DC 20405. Telephone: (202)501-1794.            
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  USA.gov; Pueblo.gsa.gov; ConsumerAction.gov; Kids.gov; USAServices.gov;            
  gobiernoUSA.gov; consumidor.gov.                                                   
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  40.002, Government Publications Sales and Distribution.                            
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  None.                                                                              
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  None.                                                                              
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
39.012 PUBLIC BUILDINGS SERVICE                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION, PUBLIC BUILDINGS SERVICE                          
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Public Law 110-161, Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2008; Division D-             
  Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Act, 2008; Title V,       
  General Services Administration.                                                   
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To cultivate innovative regional coordination, design, and planning practices for  
  accommodating federal offices in the Washington region over the next half-         
  century. Decisions about the form, nature, and location of federal work will       
  have a tremendous influence on the long-term social, economic, environmental,      


                                                                                11-08
  and cultural health of the region. Developing an urban planning vision for how
  to locate and develop federal work places will require close collaboration with
  both public and private stakeholders. The federal government seeks to
  encourage this effective regional coordination and plan intelligently, guided by
  mutual regional concerns such as sustainability, energy consumption,
  transportation infrastructure, security, new technologies, including those that
  facilitate telework opportunities, as well as the changing regional economics of
  land, housing, and workforce issues.In order to promote a guiding vision for the
  future of federal work in the Washington region, the General Services
  Administration's (GSA) Public Building Service (PBS) will award competitive
  grants in the range of $50,000 to $500,000 for coordination, planning, and
  research efforts that explore fundamental questions related to the form, location,
  and design of federal offices over the next 10 to 50 years in the National Capital
  Region. The maximum aggregate value of the grants is $500,000. Regarding the
  above, the government may choose to fund multiple proposals that take very
  different approaches to these issues, if such proposals meet the government's
  interests.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Provision of Specialized Services.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Through this competitive grant opportunity, GSA seeks to facilitate the research
  and coordination efforts that would help regional stakeholders better understand
  how long-term federal facility needs may be met in concert with long range
  regional transportation, housing, employment, telework opportunities,
  sustainability, and socio-economic goals and trends; the range of risks and
  opportunities affecting federal facility siting and development decisions; and the
  long-range planning and coordination needed to meet related regional
  challenges. The envisioned grants may be for the purposes of directly assisting
  in the coordination of long-term federal workplace siting decisions with regional
  stakeholders; providing the research needed to better inform such coordination;
  or a combination of the above purposes. GSA is not soliciting positions on
  policy issues pending before Congress, the executive branch, or other domestic
  bodies and will not fund grant proposals of a partisan political nature. However,
  projects that lead to policy recommendations for governments, international
  organizations, or nongovernmental organizations are welcome and indeed
  encouraged, although such recommendations will be those of the grantee and not
  GSA.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Institutions of higher education, nonprofit organizations, commercial
  organizations, State or local governments, or individuals with experience in the
  analysis or coordination of the planning issues described above. Joint ventures
  between any of these types of entities are welcome.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Institutions of higher education, nonprofit organizations, commercial
  organizations, State or local governments, or individuals with experience in the
  analysis or coordination of the planning issues described above.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants who wish to be considered for these competitive grants must submit
  a grant proposal that includes an executive summary describing the proposed
  work; an SF-424 Facesheet, as referenced in OMB Circulars A-102 and A-110, a
  description of proposed work, detailed explanation of your funding request in a
  SF-424a, as referenced in Circulars A-102 and A-110; a description of the
  grantee's prior experience; and three references outside of the requesting entity
  who the government may contact as a reference for the entity's past performance.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Grant proposals will be evaluated by a panel consisting of GSA officials and
  GSA Design Excellence Peers, who are nationally recognized private sector
  experts in the field of urban planning and design. Successful grantees will be
  notified by July 31, 2008.
Award Procedure:
  Grant funds will be issued upon the selection of grantees, as described in the
  Application Procedure. Upon approval of the Assistant Commissioner for the
  Office of Budget and Financial Management and the Deputy Commissioner and
  Commissioner of the Public Buildings Service.
Deadlines:
  Not applicable.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Applications must be received by 5pm on June 20, 2008. Grants will be
  announced by July 31, 2008.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  None.
Reports:
                                                                                  795
