  Deliver as promised in Grantee proposal.

Audits:

  None.

Records:

  None.

Account Identification:

  47-4542-0-4-804.

Obligations:

  FY 07 $0; FY 08 $500,000; and FY 09 est not available.

Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

  None.

PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

  None.

REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

  None.

Regional or Local Office:

  None.

Headquarters Office:

  Frank Giblin, 1800 F Street, N.W., Washington, DC 20405. Telephone: (202)

  501-1856.

Web Site Address:

  www.gsa.gov .

RELATED PROGRAMS:

  None.

EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

  None.

CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

  GSA will give preference to those proposals that it believes would best promote

  the purpose stated in Public Law 110-161 to encourage better understanding and

  coordination among State and local governments, the commercial sector, and

  other major stakeholders in the region about federal facilities siting decisions

  and long term regional needs and trends, as described above. Additionally,

  important factors for consideration of the grant proposals will include

  assessment of the following: The potential for effective use by relevant

  stakeholders, including the federal and regional governments, the private sector,

  and other key regional decision makers; the potential to advance regional

  understanding or coordination in a new or creative way; the ability of the

  requesting organization to deliver their proposed work effort; how the proposed

  grant funding would be leveraged by other investments or efforts, to maximize

  its effect; and how the proposed work supports GSA's mission and goals of

  leveraging the buying power of the federal government to acquire best value for

  taxpayers and our federal customers to deliver superior workplaces. Finally,

  GSA will consider the totality of submitted proposals and award grants based, in

  part, on how the collective body of work proposed by all the grantees would best

  advance the goals expressed in this grant opportunity.









796                                                                           11-08

