                                                     GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

40.001 DEPOSITORY LIBRARIES FOR GOVERNMENT                                             
PUBLICATIONS                                                                           
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE                                                           
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  44 U.S.C. 1901-1915.                                                                 
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To provide a class of libraries in the United States and its possessions known as    
  depository libraries, in which tangible and electronic U.S. Government               
  information products are made available by the Superintendent of Documents           
  for use by the public.                                                               
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Dissemination of Technical Information.                                              
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  The purpose of this program is to make U.S. Government information products          
  available for reference in local areas. As of March 2006, there were 1,266           
  Depository Libraries. There are no restrictions on the use of U.S. Government        
  information products in depository libraries other than the general rules and        
  regulations of the individual libraries. Public access is guaranteed by law.         
  Depository publications remain the property of the U.S. Government.                  
Applicant Eligibility:

  Depository libraries are designated by members of Congress, with two

  Representative designations provided for in each congressional district and four

                                                                                       
  Senatorial designations provided for in each State at large. By law, all State       
  libraries, highest State appellate court libraries, libraries of land grant colleges,
  and law school libraries are also eligible to be designated depositories.

Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Services are available to the general public.                                        
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  None.                                                                                
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                       
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Deadlines:                                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Not applicable.

                                                                                       
Appeals:

                                                                                       
  Not applicable.

                                                                                       
Renewals:

  Not applicable.                                                                      
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Reports:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                
Audits:                                                                                
  None.                                                                                
Records:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                
Account Identification:                                                                
  04-0201-0-1-808.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  FY 07 est 43,000,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.           
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                      
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  Through this program, selected U.S. Government information products are made         
  available to Federal depository libraries for use by the general public. During      
  fiscal year 2005, over 5.3 million copies of approx. 10,301 titles in paper,         
  microfiche and CD ROM were distributed to depository libraries. Additionally,        
  the Federal Depository Library Program Electronic Collection (FDLP/EC)               
  provided no fee access to approx. 301,633 online titles located on the GPO           
  Access servers and by linking to agency web resources. The online resources of       
  the FDLP/EC are available via the Web at: http://www.access.gpo.gov .                
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  The "Federal Depository Library Directory" describes the depository library          
  system and contains a list of the libraries currently designated. It is available    
  without charge and revised annually. An online version of the directory is           
  available at: http://www.access.gpo.gov/su_docs/fdlp/tools/direct.html. This         
  directory is also available free from the Federal Bulletin Board (202) 512-1387;     
  telnet to: fedbbs.access.gpo.gov; or FTP to: ftp://fedbbs.access.gpo.gov; and        
  web: http://fedbbs.access.gpo.gov.                                                   
Regional or Local Office:

                                                                                  11-08
  The libraries are listed in the program literature. As of March 2006, there were
  1,266 libraries located in the United States and its possessions.
Headquarters Office:
  U.S. Government Printing Office, Information Dissemination Department
  (Superintendent of Documents), 732 North Capitol Street, NW., Washington,
  DC 20402. Contact: U.S. Government Printing Office, Judy Russell,
  Superintendent of Documents, 732 North Capitol Street, NW., Washington, DC
  20402. Telephone: (202) 512-1114. The Gpo Contact Center: Hours: 7:00
  a.m. to 8:00 p.m. EST Monday through Friday (except Federal Holidays)
  Toll-Free: 1-866-512-1800 DC Area: 202-512-1800 E-Mail:
  ContractCenter@gpo.gov Online: www.gpoaccess.gov/help Fax: 202-512-
  2104.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.access.gpo.gov/su_docs/fdlp/libpro.html .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  11.650, National Technical Information Service; 40.002, Government
  Publications Sales and Distribution.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
40.002 GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS SALES AND
DISTRIBUTION
   (The Government Bookstore)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
AUTHORIZATION:
  44 U.S.C. 17.
OBJECTIVES:
  To make U.S. Government publications available for purchase.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Sale, Exchange, or Donation of Property and Goods; Dissemination of Technical
  Information.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The United States Government Printing Office, Information Dissemination
  Department (Superintendent of Documents), is an authorized sales agent for
  information published by the various departments and agencies of the Federal
  Government. Approximately 5,860 titles covering nearly every field of interest
  are available for purchase at nominal prices. If purchasers order 100 copies or
  more of one publication to be mailed to a single address, they will receive a 25
  percent discount. Bookdealers, regardless of the quantity purchased, will be
  allowed a 25 percent discount when the publications, pamphlets, periodicals or
  subscription services are mailed, delivered, or forwarded to the dealer's normal
  place of business. No discounts are allowed when the publication, pamphlet,
  periodical, or subscription service is mailed to a third party (unless in quantities
  of 100 or more), or on those periodicals and subscription services which fall into
  a special pricing category as noted in, "U.S. Government Subscriptions" which
  is described below. Generally speaking, there are no restrictions on reprinting or
  quoting from U.S. Government Publications, as the code of laws of the United
  States provides that they cannot be copyrighted. However, Government
  publications occasionally contain copyrighted material which was used with
  permission of the copyright owner, and publication in a Government document
  does not authorize any use or appropriation of such copyright material without
  the consent of the owner. As the Government Printing Office serves merely as a
  printing and distribution agency for Government publications and has no
  jurisdiction over their content or subject matter, it is suggested that the
  originating department or agency or its successor be consulted prior to reprinting
  or quoting from any given publication. In those instances in which permission to
  reprint material from Government publications is granted, customary credit
  should be given to the Government Department which prepared the material. By
  law, every publication printed through the GPO, whether it is designated for sale
  or not, must be cataloged and indexed. The "Monthly Catalog of United States
  Government Publications" is produced to fulfill this obligation. The
  approximately 5,860 titles sold by the Superintendent of Documents include
  about 358subscription services. These subscription items are listed in the
  Superintendent of Documents, "U. S. Government Subscriptions,
  "http://bookstore.gpo.gov/collections/subscriptions/index.jsp which is revised
  quarterly. All titles sold by GPO are listed in maybe browsed by subject at
  htt://bookstore.gpo.gov. The Sales Product Catalog list the entire inventory. The
  Sales Product Catalog is on the Internet at: http://bookstore.gpo.gov .
Applicant Eligibility:
  The services of the Superintendent of Documents are available to all interested
  parties and there are no eligibility requirements.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
                                                                                     797
