                                                            LIBRARY OF CONGRESS

42.001 BOOKS FOR THE BLIND AND PHYSICALLY                                           
HANDICAPPED                                                                         
                                                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     
  LIBRARY OF CONGRESS                                                               
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                      
  Public Laws 71-787, 87-765, and 89-522, 2 U.S.C. 135a, 135a-1, 135b.              
OBJECTIVES:                                                                         
  To provide library service to the blind and physically handicapped residents of   
  the United States and its Territories, and to American citizens living abroad.    
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                
  Use of Property, Facilities, and Equipment.                                       
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                          
  The program provides books on cassette, disc, in Braille, and talking book and    
  recorded cassette machines. There are 57 regional libraries and 75 subregional    
  libraries in the United States with access to approximately 423,000 titles in     
  recorded and braille formats and more than 22,000 music scores, textbooks, and    
  instructional materials in braille, large type and recorded formats worldwide.    
Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  An applicant must provide a certificate of his inability to read or manipulate    
  standard printed material from a competent authority, defined in cases of         
  blindness, visual disability, or physical limitations, as doctors of medicine,    
  doctors of osteopathy, ophthalmologists, optometrists, registered nurses,         
  therapists, professional staff of hospitals, institutions, and public or welfare  
  agencies. In the absence of any of these, certification may be made by            
  professional librarians or by any person whose competence under specific          
  circumstances is acceptable to the Library of Congress. In the case of reading    
  disability from organic dysfunction, competent authority is defined as doctors of 
  medicine and doctors of osteopathy who may consult with colleagues in             
  associated disciplines.                                                           
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                            
  Blind and physically handicapped residents of the United States and its           
  Territories, and American citizens living abroad will benefit.

Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  An applicant must provide a certificate of his inability to read or manipulate

  standard printed material from a competent authority, defined in cases of         
  blindness, visual disability, or physical limitations, as doctors of medicine,    
  doctors of osteopathy, ophthalmologists, optometrists, registered nurses,         
  therapists, professional staff of hospitals, institutions and public or welfare   
  agencies. In the absence of any of these, certification may be made by            
  professional librarians or by any person whose competence under specific          
  circumstances is acceptable to the Library of Congress. In the case of reading    
  disability from organic dysfunction, competent authority is defined as doctors of 
  medicine and doctors of osteopathy who may consult with colleagues in             
  associated disciplines. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB          
  Circular No. A-87.                                                                
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102. This         
  program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                               
Application Procedure:                                                              
  Application Procedure: Applications can be made to the National Library           
  Service for the Blind and Physically Handicapped in Washington, DC, or the 57     
  regional libraries, or 75 subregional libraries. This program is excluded from    
  coverage under OMB Circular No. A 110.                                            
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  Not applicable.                                                                   
Deadlines:                                                                          
  Not applicable.                                                                   
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  Not applicable.                                                                   
Appeals:                                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                   
Renewals:                                                                           
  Not applicable.                                                                   
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  Not applicable.                                                                   
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                   
Reports:                                                                            
  None.                                                                             
Audits:                                                                             
  None.                                                                             
Records:                                                                            
  None.                                                                             
Account Identification:                                                             
  03-0141-0-1-503.                                                                  
Obligations:

                                                                                    
  Obligations: (20 percent salaries and expenses; 80 percent equipment and

                                                                                    


                                                                               11-08
  support) FY 07 $38,039,736; FY 08 est $75,623,000; and FY 09 est not
  reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Not applicable.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS: In FY 06, 811,015 blind and physically
  handicapped readers were served by regional and subregional libraries
  throughout the United States with a collection of 423,000 titles in recorded and
  braille formats. Circulation of volumes and containers was 26,296,198. Actual
  readership: FY 06, 793,891. Estimated readership: FY 07, 793,891; and FY
  08, 811,015. Actual circulation: FY 06, 24,677,023. Estimated circulation: FY
  07, 24,677,023; and FY 08, 26,296,198.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  "Reading is for Everyone." Application form, list of regional and subregional
  libraries, 36 CFR (Chapter VII).
Regional or Local Office:
  Regional or Local Office: Fifty seven regional and 75 subregional libraries in
  the United States. Each State has an agency distributing talking book machines.
   Local public libraries have information available. Otherwise contact the
  headquarters office listed in this program.
Headquarters Office:
  Frank Kurt Cylke, Director, National Library Service for the Blind and
  Physically Handicapped, Library of Congress, 1291 Taylor Street, NW.,
  Washington DC 20542. Telephone: (202) 707-5100. E-mail: nls@loc.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.loc.gov/nls.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
42.002 COPYRIGHT SERVICE
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Law 102-307, 17 U.S.C. 101-710, as amended.
OBJECTIVES:
  OBJECTIVES: To administer the U.S. copyright law, to examine and decide the
  acceptability of all applications, deposit copies, and other materials presented for
  registration of original and renewal copyright claims; and preregistration of
  certain unpublished works; to process deposits submitted in compliance with the
  mandatory deposit provision of the copyright law; to record and publish facts of
  copyright and certain bibliographic data pertaining to each registered work; to
  furnish information to the public about the procedures for making registration
  and the practices of the Office; to record transfers of copyright ownership or
  other documents pertaining to a copyright; to provide reports on copyright facts
  found in the records of the Copyright Office; to provide certified copies of office
  records; and to promulgate copyright regulations. To examine cable system and
  satellite carrier statements of account and collect compulsory license royalties
  for distribution to copyright owners; to examine quarterly and annual statements
  of account and receive royalties on behalf of copyright owners pursuant to the
  statutory obligation provided for the manufacture and distribution of digital
  audio recording equipment and media; to examine and record documents
  relating to compulsory and statutory licenses and obligations and to assist the
  Copyright Royalty Board and review the legal underpinnings of its decisions.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Dissemination of Technical Information.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS: Anyone may request information about the
  copyright law, the Copyright Office regulations, the method of securing
  copyright, and procedures for registering claims and recording documents. This
  information is free of charge. Reports on copyright facts found in the records of
  the Copyright Office may be obtained for a statutory search fee of $150 an hour
  or fraction thereof; however, any member of the public may use, without charge,
  the Copyright Card Catalog and the online catalog of registrations made since
  1978 in the Copyright Office. The Office has established a single statutory fee
  for registration of claims to copyright for most categories of work with the
  exception of group registration of serials and daily newspapers, which have
  separate fee schedules. Fees provided by law for registration of claims to
  copyright are $45 ($35 for online submissions starting in FY 2008) for most
  categories with the exception of group registration of serials and daily
  newspapers, which have separate fee schedules. There are also separate
  schedules of statutory fees for recordation of transfers of copyright ownership,
  certified copies of records, etc. The latest fee information can be obtained by
  contacting the Copyright Office or checking the Copyright Office Website at
                                                                                    799
