  www.copyright.gov.                                                                 
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Information is supplied to anyone on request. Registration may be made by          
  creators of the work, their assignees, or their exclusive licensees, and others    
  designated by law, or by their agents.                                             
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Information supplied to anyone, on request. Registration may be made by            
  authors, their assignees, or their exclusive licensees, and others designated by   
  law, or by their agents.                                                           
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  None.

Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.

Application Procedure:                                                               
  Walk-in service or written requests for information. Applications for registration 
  are on forms provided by the Copyright Office. Application forms are also          
  available on the Copyright Office Forms Hotline at (202) 707-9100 24 hours a       
  day, and at the Copyright Office Website at www.copyright.gov.                     
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Deadlines:                                                                           
  The owner of a copyright or the right of first publication in a work published in  
  the United States has a legal obligation to deposit in the Copyright Office two    
  complete copies or phonorecords for the use of the Library of Congress.            
  Copyright registration under the 1976 Copyright Act is generally voluntary,        
  although copyright owners are required to register their claim in order to obtain  
  certain legal remedies; registration can be made at any time during the copyright  
  term; however, prompt registration is advisable to preserve the ability to obtain  
  statutory damages and attorney's fees for copyright infringement. Cable            
  systems, satellite carriers, importers, and manufacturers of digital audio         
  recording products have deadlines for filing statements of account and royalty     
  fees.                                                                              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Appeals:                                                                             
  Request for Reconsideration: Denials of registration may be appealed to the        
  Registration and Recordation Program by letter. A second appeal, also by letter,   
  may be made to a Review Board.                                                     
Renewals:                                                                            
  Renewals: The copyright law was amended to extend automatically the term of        
  copyrights secured between January 1, 1964, and December 31, 1977, to a            
  further term of 47 years and made renewal optional. The term of copyright in       
  works published or copyrighted between January 1, 1964, and December 31,           
  1977, is 95 years. There is no need to make the renewal filing in order to extend  
  the original 28 year copyright term to the full 95 years. However, some benefits   
  accrue to making a renewal registration. Note: It is no longer possible to do a    
  renewal during the 24th year. The filing fee for renewals is $75. This fee applies 
  to all renewal applications filed on or after July 1, 2007. For more information,  
  contact the Renewals Section at (202) 707 8180.                                    
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Reports:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Audits:                                                                              
  None.                                                                              
Records:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Account Identification:                                                              
  03-0102-0-1-376.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  Obligations: (82 percent salaries and expenses; 12 percent materials) FY 06        
  $51,676,000; FY 07 $48,650,670; FY 08 est $51,562,000; and FY 09 est not           
  reported.                                                                          
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  Not applicable.                                                                    
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  In FY 07, it made 525,146 registrations. The estimated registrations for FY 08     
  are 510,000. In FY 07, the Office recorded 11,534 documents relating to            
  copyrights. The Office estimates 12,000 document recordations in FY 08. In FY      
  07, the value of such transfers was more than $45 million. The value of            
  transferred material for FY 08 is estimated at $45 million.                        
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  Applications, copies of regulations, and printed informational circulars are       
  available from the Copyright Office at the mailing address given below.            
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Register of Copyrights, Copyright Office, James Madison Memorial Building,         
  Library of Congress, Washington, DC. Telephone: (202) 707-3000. Mailing            
800                                                                            11-08

  address: Library of Congress, Copyright Office, 101 Independence Ave., S.E.,
  Washington, DC 20559-6000.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.copyright.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  11.900, Patent and Trademark Technical Information Dissemination.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
42.008 SEMICONDUCTOR CHIP PROTECTION SERVICE
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Law 98-620, 98 Stat. 3347 (1984) (as amended)
OBJECTIVES:
  To administer the Semiconductor Chip Protection Act of 1984; to examine and
  decide the acceptability of all application and identifying material for
  registration of the claim of protection; to establish by regulation the fees for
  filing of applications and for other services provided by the Copyright Office; to
  record and publish legal facts or data pertaining to each registered work; to
  furnish information to the public about the procedures for applying for
  registration and the practices of the Office; to record documents of transfer or
  other documents pertaining to mask works.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Dissemination of Technical Information.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS: Anyone may request information about the
  Semiconductor Chip Protection Act, the Copyright Office regulations, the
  method of securing registration and the procedures for registering claims of
  protection and recording documents. This information is free of charge.
  Reports on facts found in the records of the Copyright Office may be obtained
  for a statutory fee of $150 an hour. However, any member of the public may
  (without charge) use the catalog records in the Copyright Office. The records are
  available via the Copyright Office website. The fee set by regulation for
  registration of claims of protection is $95. There are also separate schedules of
  regulatory fees for recordation of transfers of ownership and certified copies of
  record. The latest fee information can be obtained by contacting the Copyright
  Office or checking the Copyright Office Website at www.copyright.gov.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Information is supplied on request to anyone. Registration may be made by the
  owner of a qualified mask work, as designated by law, or the duly authorized
  agent of such owner.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Information is supplied to anyone on request. Owners of qualified mask works
  as designated by law will benefit.
Credentials/Documentation:
  This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102. This
  program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Walk-in service or written requests for information. Applications for registration
  are made on forms MW provided by the office. Application forms are available
  on the Copyright Office Website at http://www.copyright.gov. This program is
  excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-110.
Award Procedure:
  Not applicable.
Deadlines:
  Applications for registration of a claim of protection must be made within 2
  years after the date in which the work was first commercially exploited anywhere
  in the world.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  If the Copyright Office fails to act upon the application within four months of its
  receipt, the Office is deemed to have refused to register the application.
  However, an applicant has the right to initiate an infringement suit in court
  before registration is made, provided that notice of the action is served on the
  Register of Copyrights.
Appeals:
  Requests for Reconsideration: Refusal of the Register of Copyrights to issue a
  certificate of registration may be brought for review in an appropriate United
  States district court not later than sixty days after the refusal. Informal
  administrative reconsideration of a refusal to register may be requested by letter
  to the Registration and Recordation Program.
Renewals:
  None. The duration of protection is a single ten year term terminating at the end
  of the tenth calendar year.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Not applicable.
