  neighborhoods constituting a target area. A target area is defined as that area    
  designated by the Economic Development Administration or another Federal           
  agency or by a State or local government agency for special assistance to low-     
  income residents such as special impact areas or enterprise zones.                 
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  The Community Development Revolving Loan Fund Program for Credit Unions            
  requires low-income credit unions to provide evidence of chartering from the       
  appropriate Regional Office of the National Credit Union Administration or a       
  State credit union regulatory agency. The board of directors will prepare a        
  Community Needs Plan (Plan) and submit it with its loan application. The Plan      
  will contain a list of needed community services that the credit union will        
  provide. The board of directors will provide a status report on the Plan's         
  objectives to the credit union members once a year either at the annual meeting    
  or in a written report sent to all members. The Plan's yearly status report will   
  also be submitted to NCUA annually. This Program is excluded from coverage

  under OMB Circular No. A-87.

Preapplication Coordination:

  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.

Application Procedure:

  Applications for loans competitively awarded in response to a program

  announcement are to be addressed to: National Credit Union Administration,

  Community Development Revolving Loan Program for Credit Unions, 1775

  Duke Street, Alexandria, VA 22314- 3428. Applicants are urged to inform and

  to coordinate with State and local governments where such information and

  coordination is appropriate or necessary for the success of the program. This

  Program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102.

Award Procedure:

  NCUA will notify applicant credit unions as to whether they have qualified for a

  loan under the Revolving Loan Program.

Deadlines:

  Notices of availability of funds will be published in the Federal Register.

Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

  From 30 to 90 days.

Appeals:

  Any applicant whose qualification is denied may appeal that decision to the

  NCUA Board.

Renewals:

  Not applicable.

Formula and Matching Requirements:

  The Revolving Loan Program has no statutory formula. Loans made available

  under the program must be matched by the participating credit union. Any loan

  monies matched by member share deposits will be credited as a two-for-one

  match. Non- member deposits are a dollar-for-dollar match.

Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

  Financial assistance made available in this program will be in the form of a loan

  which is to be deposited in the credit union as either a non-member deposit or as

  a note payable and must be repaid to the Revolving Loan Program at a rate of

  not less than 1 or greater than 3 percent per annum. The term of the loans will

  not exceed 5 years from the date of award of the loan. Funds will be released

  directly to the credit union by NCUA, Community Development Revolving

  Loan Program for Credit Unions.

Reports:

  Loan recipients must submit a copy of the Credit Union's Community Needs

  Plan with their application, annual audit report of the Supervisory Committee,

  quarterly, semi-annual or other financial, business or program reports as required

  by NCUA and a final report summarizing the activities and accomplishments of

  the project in relation to the approved goals and objectives.

Audits:

  The recipient credit union must submit to NCUA annually the Supervisory

  Committee's audit report and the annual State or Federal examiner's report

  within 30 days of issuance.

Records:

  Loan recipients are required to keep all financial, business and program reports

  necessary for program review and audit to ensure that funds have been expended

  in accordance with the regulations, loan agreement and terms and conditions of

  the Revolving Loan Program.

Account Identification:

  25-4472-0-3-373.

Obligations:

  FY 07 $7,300,000; FY 08 est $2,500,000; and FY 09 est not reported.

Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

  From $5,000 to $300,000.

PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

  $2.9 million in new loans were made in fiscal year 2006.

REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

  CDRL Program, Federal Register, Volume 52 No. 179, September 16, 1987 (12

  CFR 705) and Volume 54 No. 240, December 15, 1989.

Regional or Local Office:

  Not applicable.

Headquarters Office:



                                                                               11-08 
  Tawana James, Community Development Revolving Loan Fund Program for
  Credit Unions, National Credit Union Administration, 1775 Duke Street,
  Alexandria, VA 22314-3428. Telephone: (703) 518-6610.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ncua.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  44.001, Credit Union Charter, Examination, Supervision, and Insurance.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The Community Development Revolving Loan Fund Program will use the
  following to base its consideration for awards on the following priorities: (1)
  Purpose; (2) Financial Factors and (3) Non-Financial Factors as listed in the
  application for funds.
                                                                                    805
