                                              NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS

45.024 PROMOTION OF THE ARTS-GRANTS TO                                                   
ORGANIZATIONS AND INDIVIDUALS                                                            
                                                                                         
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                          
  NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS, NATIONAL FOUNDATION                                   
  ON THE ARTS AND THE HUMANITIES                                                         
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                           
  National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, as amended,            
  Public Law 89-209, 20 U.S.C. 951 et seq.                                               
OBJECTIVES:                                                                              
  To support excellence in the arts, both new and established; bring the arts to all     
  Americans; and provide leadership in arts education.                                   
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                     
  Project Grants.                                                                        
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                               
  Grants support projects that include opportunities for artists to create, refine,      
  perform, and exhibit their work; the presentation of artistic works of all cultures    
  and periods; the preservation of significant works of art and cultural traditions;     
  opportunities for arts organizations and artists to expand and diversify their         
  audiences; opportunities for individuals to experience and participate in a wide       
  range of art forms and activities; opportunities to enhance the effectiveness of       
  arts organizations and artists; the strengthening of communities through the arts;     
  the recognition of artists for their contributions to our nation's cultural heritage;  
  nationally distributed television and radio programs on the arts; the acquisition      
  by children and youth of knowledge, skills, and understanding of the arts              
  consistent with national or state arts education standards; partnerships with other    
  federal agencies to carry out quality projects or initiatives of mutual interest;      
  activities, carried out in partnership with foundations or other government            
  agencies, which provide increased opportunities for international cultural             
  exchange; activities that acquaint foreign artists and cultural officials with the     
  best of American culture; a limited number of leadership projects intended to          
  advance the arts significantly and demonstrate national or field-wide                  
  importance; and national initiative projects and activities of outstanding artistic    
  quality that benefit Americans in communities throughout the country. Consult          
  the current funding opportunities, guidelines, or program announcements for the        
  area of interest for complete information.                                             
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                   
  Tax-exempt organizations meeting the following conditions may apply: (1) No            
  part of any earnings may benefit a private stockholder or individual, and (2)          
  donations to the organization are allowable as charitable deductions under             
  Section 170(c) of the Internal Revenue Code. Examples of eligible                      
  organizations are arts institutions, arts service organizations, local arts agencies,  
  official units of state and local governments, federally recognized tribal             
  communities and Indian tribes. Generally, an organization may submit only one          
  application for a single project under one of the category deadlines; must have a      
  three-year history of programming prior to the application deadline; and must          
  have submitted acceptable final reports by the due date for all Arts Endowment         
  grants previously received. Individuals must be U.S. citizens or permanent             
  residents and, according to 20 U.S.C. 954 (c ), must demonstrate exceptional           
  talent. Currently, the only individuals eligible to apply directly are published       
  creative writers. Master artists in the folk & traditional arts and in jazz are        
  eligible for honorary fellowships awarded on the basis of nominations. See             
  respective funding opportunities, guidelines, or program announcements for             
  further information.                                                                   
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                 
  Nonprofit organizations, state and local governments, local arts agencies, local       
  education agencies (school districts), federally recognized tribal communities         
  and Indian tribes, literary artists, and master artists in the folk & traditional arts 
  and in jazz. Through activities and services supported, beneficiaries include          
  artists and the general public.                                                        
Credentials/Documentation:                                                               
  For institutions of higher education, allowable costs will be determined               
  according to OMB Circular No. A-21; for other nonprofit organizations making           
  application, allowable costs will be determined according to OMB Circular No.          
  A-122. For local and state governments, costs will be determined in accordance         
  with OMB Circular No. A-87. Awards to individuals: Literature fellowship               
  applicants must be published writers. Nominators of candidates for NEA Jazz            
  Masters Fellowships or NEA National Heritage Fellowships must document the             
  candidate's contribution to the art form. See respective funding opportunities,        
  guidelines, or program announcements for additional requirements.                      
Preapplication Coordination:                                                             
  Applicants should consult current funding opportunities, guidelines, or program        
  announcements for the funding area under which they intend to apply. This              
  program is excluded from coverage under E.O.12372, "Intergovernmental                  
  Review of Federal Programs."                                                           
Application Procedure:                                                                   
  Applicants must obtain current Arts Endowment funding opportunities,                   
                                                                                         
806                                                                                11-08

  guidelines, or program announcements (available at www.arts.gov). Applicants
  must adhere to instructions, and should submit their applications through
  Grants.gov. As applicable, this program is subject to provisions of OMB
  Circular No. A-110, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and
  Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other Non-
  Profit Organizations" and OMB Circular No. A-102, "Grants and Cooperative
  Agreements with State and Local Governments."
Award Procedure:
  Applications generally receive three independent levels of review. First, they are
  reviewed by independent, national panels of artists and other arts experts. Panel
  recommendations are forwarded to the National Council on the Arts, which then
  makes recommendations to the Chairman of the National Endowment for the
  Arts. The Chairman reviews the Council's recommendations and makes the final
  decision on all grant awards.
Deadlines:
  See the Arts Endowment Web site at www.arts.gov for information about
  application deadlines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Dependent on meetings of the National Council on the Arts.
Appeals:
  Information on requests for reconsideration may be obtained from the
  headquarters office.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Awards to organizations generally must be matched at least 1:1 with nonfederal
  funds. Awards to individuals do not require a match.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Length of assistance period and timing of funds disbursement will vary
  according to project or grant category. Many grants cover a period of support of
  up to two years. Generally, requests for payment to cover immediate allowable
  project expenses may be submitted at any time during the period of support.
Reports:
  Progress reports are required for all grants and must be submitted at the time the
  cumulative amount of grant funds requested exceeds two-thirds of the grant
  amount. Final reports are required for all grants within 90 days after the end of
  the grant period. No reports are required from recipients of NEA Jazz Masters
  Fellowships or NEA National Heritage Fellowships.
Audits:
  Awards to organizations: All awardees must comply with audit requirements
  mandated by OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of States, Local Governments,
  and Nonprofit Organizations." Nonprofit institutions expending $500,000 or
  more a year in Federal awards shall have an audit made in accordance with A-
  133's provisions. State and local governments expending $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards within the State's fiscal year shall have an audit made for that
  year in accordance with A-133's provisions. Awards to individuals: No audits
  required.
Records:
  Award-related records must be retained by grantee for three years following
  submission of the final financial status report.
Account Identification:
  59-0100-0-1-503.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $60,384,000; FY 08 est $71,762,000; and FY 09 est
  $60,979,000. (All figures include funds for the Challenge America: Reaching
  Every Community and American Masterpieces initiatives.)
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Fiscal year 2008: Most grants range from $5,000 to $100,000. Grants of
  $100,000 or more are made only in rare instances, and only for projects that the
  Arts Endowment determines demonstrate exceptional national or regional
  significance and impact. In the past few years, well over half of the agency's
  grants have been for amounts less than $25,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  As a result of projects supported in FY 2007: an estimated 70 million people
  across the nation, including 6.5 million youth, are being provided access to the
  arts exclusive of broadcasting; 3,700 different communities are benefitting from
  direct Arts Endowment support; 34,000 concerts, performances, and readings
  and 4,000 exhibitions in the visual and media arts are occuring; 10,000 artist
  residencies are taking place in schools and other locations; and thousands of
  artists and teachers/administrators are participating in agency-supported
  projects. FY 07: 5,169 applications, 2,158 grants; FY 08 est: 5,300
  applications, 2,250 grants; FY 09 est: 5,200 applications, 2,200 grants.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Visit the Arts Endowment's Web site at www.arts.gov for funding opportunities,
  guidelines, or program announcements.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
