  National Endowment for the Arts, 1100 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW.,                      
  Washington, DC 20506-0001. Telephone: (202) 682-5400. Individuals who are            
  deaf or hard of hearing should call: (202) 682-5496 (Voice/T.T.Y.). Individuals      
  unable to use conventional print may access funding opportunities, guidelines,       
  or program announcements on the Web site or contact the Arts Endowment's             
  Office for AccessAbility (202) 682-5532 for help.                                    
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  www.arts.gov.                                                                        
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  45.025, Promotion of the Arts_Partnership Agreements.                                
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  Grant listings are posted at www.arts.gov. Examples include: (1) the creation        
  and performance of a dance theater work; (2) an after-school artist residency        
  program; (3) a creative writing fellowship in poetry; (4) an initiative that         
  spotlights jazz masters; (5) a program that brings mayors together with design       
  professionals to enhance the livability of communities; (6) a festival featuring     
  American choral music including new work; (7) the publication of a museum            
  exhibition catalogue; (8) an initiative that provides citizens within a community    
  the opportunity to read and discuss a single book; (9) a nationwide tour of          
  Shakespeare plays including performances, workshops, symposia, and school            
  programs.                                                                            
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  Primary criteria by which all applications are assessed are artistic excellence and  
  artistic merit. For additional criteria, consult respective funding opportunities,   
  guidelines, or program announcements.                                                
                                                                                       
                                                                                       
45.025 PROMOTION OF THE ARTS-PARTNERSHIP

                                                                                       
AGREEMENTS                                                                             
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS, NATIONAL FOUNDATION                                 
  ON THE ARTS AND THE HUMANITIES                                                       
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, as amended,          
  Public Law 89-209, 20 U.S.C. 951 et seq.                                             
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To develop and maintain partnerships with the state and jurisdictional arts          
  agencies (SAAs) and their regional organizations (RAOs) to advance the mission       
  of the National Endowment for the Arts.                                              
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Formula Grants; Project Grants; Advisory Services and Counseling.                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  SAA Partnership Agreements support four components: 1) the state arts plan for       
  priorities identified at the state level (including activity for Poetry Out Loud); 2)
  elements of the state plan that address arts education; 3) elements of the state     
  plan that foster the arts in underserved communities; and 4) projects that           
  strengthen a state or region's infrastructure of support for the folk & traditional  
  arts. RAO Partnership Agreements offer support for: 1) a regional arts plan; 2)      
  touring intended to give all Americans access to excellent, live performing arts;    
  and 3) projects that strengthen a region's infrastructure of support for the folk &  
  traditional arts. (State and regional activities addressing the Arts Endowment's     
  Challenge America and American Masterpieces initiatives are now included in          
  the components noted above.) Limited Partnership funds also are available for        
  national services provided by membership organizations of SAAs and RAOs.             
  Arts Endowment Partnership Agreement funds must be used to supplement and            
  not to supplant non-Federal funds.                                                   
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Agencies officially designated as the state arts agency by its state government in   
  each of the 50 States and six special U.S. jurisdictions; regional arts              
  organizations representing state arts agencies; and organizations providing          
  support services to state and regional arts agencies at a national level.            
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  The official arts agencies of the 50 states and six U.S. jurisdictions, regional arts
  organizations, and organizations providing support services to SAAs and RAOs         
  at the national level. Through activities and services supported, beneficiaries      
  include local arts agencies, nonprofit organizations, artists, and the general       
  public.                                                                              
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  The State Partnership Agreement requires that the agency be legally designated       
  as the official State arts agency. Costs will be determined in accordance with       
  OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments. Where applicable,             
  applications from State government agencies for Partnership Agreements must          
  be reviewed under the State's intergovernmental review process, if one has been      
  established, per E.O.12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs."          
  The Regional Partnership Agreement stipulates that the regional organization         
  must be authorized by two or more state arts agencies to apply for funds on their    
  behalf.                                                                              
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  Applicants should consult the Partnership Agreements guidelines (available at        
  www.arts.gov). This program is eligible for coverage under E.O.12372,                


                                                                                  11-08
  "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." If the program has been
  selected for review in an applicant's state, the applicant should consult the state
  office or official designated as the single point of contact for more information.
Application Procedure:
  Applicants must obtain current Partnership Agreements guidelines and adhere to
  instructions. This program is covered under OMB Circular Nos. A-102 (State
  agencies) and A-110 (regional organizations).
Award Procedure:
  Applications receive three independent levels of review. First, they are reviewed
  by an independent, national panel of individuals with expertise in the arts and
  the state and regional arts agency field. Panel recommendations are forwarded
  to the National Council on the Arts, which then makes recommendations to the
  Chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts. The Chairman reviews the
  Council's recommendations and makes the final decision on all grant awards.
  Partnership Agreements receive panel review on a three-year cycle -- one-third
  of the states are reviewed each year -- with funding subject to annual
  recommendation and approval by the Council and the Chairman.
Deadlines:
  The Partnership Agreements deadline is generally in October. See the Arts
  Endowment's Web site at www.arts.gov for the specific date.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Dependent on meetings of the National Council on the Arts.
Appeals:
  Information on requests for reconsideration may be obtained from the
  headquarters office.
Renewals:
  The Arts Endowment uses staggered, multi-year review for Partnership
  Agreements. Funding is subject to annual review and approval.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Formula and competitive grants must be matched at least 1:1 with non-federal
  funds. The Congress has stipulated that no less than 40 percent of all
  grantmaking funds appropriated for the Arts Endowment be reserved for grants
  to SAAs and RAOs. It also has directed that support for program activity in
  underserved rural and inner-city communities within each state be established as
  a funding priority. Formula: State Partnership Agreement awards: 1) Of the
  SAA-RAO reserve, at least $200,000 will be allotted to each SAA with an
  approved state plan. Up to a quarter of any funds remaining in this reserve will
  be apportioned in line with Arts Endowment policy. Any funds still remaining
  will be divided equally among the 52 SAAs serving populations over 200,000.
  Funds available for the Poetry Out Loud initiative will be allotted equally among
  SAAs in the 50 states and participating jurisdictions. 2) Funds available to
  SAAs for arts education first will be apportioned by formula among SAAs with
  plans meeting relevant review criteria; funds will not exceed $50,000 per state.
  The remaining arts education funds will be awarded competitively among SAAs
  with the strongest plans and accomplishments according to the review criteria.
  The annual maximum awarded to any one SAA for arts education is $100,000.
  3) Underserved funds to be administered through Partnership Agreements first
  will be apportioned by formula among SAAs with plans that meet the review
  criteria, with remaining funds awarded on the basis of competition to those
  SAAs with the strongest plans and accomplishments in relation to the review
  criteria. 4) Funds for Folk & Traditional Arts Infrastructure support will be
  awarded competitively among SAAs that request such funds and have the
  strongest plans and accomplishments in relation to the review criteria. Funding
  to any one SAA will range from $10,000 to $50,000. Formula: Regional
  Partnership Agreement awards: 1) Funds available will be distributed in equal
  base amounts per regional organization and shares per state. 2) For the NEA
  Regional Performing Arts Touring program, funds will be allotted based on fixed
  historic amounts, equal shares per region, and regional population. 3) Funds for
  Folk & Traditional Arts Infrastructure support will be awarded competitively
  among RAOs that request such funds and have the strongest plans and
  accomplishments in relation to the review criteria. Funding to any one RAO will
  range from $10,000 to $50,000. National services funding is derived from the
  portion of the agency's appropriation for the SAAs and RAOs.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Each award is for the full fiscal year or as designated. Generally, requests for
  payment to cover immediate allowable project expenses may be received at any
  time. FY 2009 grants support activities scheduled to begin on or after July 1,
  2009.
Reports:
  Progress reports are required for all grants and must be submitted at the time the
  cumulative amount of grant funds requested exceeds two-thirds of the grant
  amount. Final reports are required within 90 days after the end of the grant
  period.
Audits:
  Applicant and grantee-initiated audits: In accordance with the provisions of
  OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit
  Organizations," State governments expending $500,000 or more in federal
  awards within the state's fiscal year shall have an audit made for that year.
  Recipients other than State governments must comply with audit requirements
  for nonprofit institutions mandated by A-133. Nonprofit institutions expending
                                                                                   807
