  reading and discussion programs; 5,598,165 participated in local history            
  projects; 1,169,748 attended scholar-led seminars, conferences, and lectures; and   
  340,794 people attended Chautauqua type performances. Council-funded                
  exhibitions attracted approximately ten million visitors, while council-funded      
  media projects attracted 200 million viewers. Finally, some 534,073 students        
  participated in council-funded projects.                                            
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  45 CFR 1100 and 1105. Information about the National Endowment for the              
  Humanities and program guidelines are available online at http://www.neh.gov/       
  or upon request from the National Endowment for the Humanities, Washington,         
  DC 20506. Available from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government           
  Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402, is the Endowment's official                  
  publication, "Humanities" by subscription (6 issues annually, $24.00 domestic,      
  $30.00 foreign). Addresses and phone numbers for the 56 State humanities            
  councils are available from Federal/State Partnership, NEH, Room 603,               
  Washington, DC 20506, and from the NEH web site, http://www.neh.gov.                
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Located in each State. Addresses available from National Endowment for the          
  Humanities.                                                                         
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Federal/State Partnership, National Endowment for the Humanities, Room 603,         
  Washington, DC 20506. Telephone: (202) 606-8254. Fax: (202) 606-8365. E-            
  Mail: fedstate@neh.gov. Use the same telephone number for FTS.                      
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.neh.gov.                                                                 
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  45.168, Promotion of the Humanities_We the People; 45.164, Promotion of the         
  Humanities_Public Programs.                                                         
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  None.                                                                               
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Each State council sets its own guidelines and criteria for assessing proposals,    
  which are widely disseminated within the State. The criteria for State council      
  funding from NEH are established in the National Foundation on the Arts and         
  the Humanities Act of 1965, as amended, 20 U.S.C. Section 950, 956, and by          
  the NEH Federal/State Partnership.                                                  
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
45.130 PROMOTION OF THE HUMANITIES-CHALLENGE                                          
GRANTS                                                                                
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE HUMANITIES, NATIONAL                                     
  FOUNDATION ON THE ARTS AND THE HUMANITIES                                           
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, as amended,         
  Public Law 89-209, 20 U.S.C. 951 et seq.                                            
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To support educational and cultural institutions and organizations in order to      
  increase their financial stability and to sustain or improve the quality of         
  humanities programs, services, or resources. Normally, institutions requesting      
  their first NEH challenge grant must raise at least three dollars in new donations  
  from nonfederal sources to receive each Federal dollar. Institutions requesting     
  subsequent challenge grants must raise at least four dollars for each Federal       
  dollar. A special category of challenge grants, called We the People, is designed   
  to help institutions and organizations secure long-term improvements in             
  humanities activities that explore significant themes and events in American        
  history and culture, with special attention to advancing knowledge of the           
  nation's founding principles.                                                       
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Funds may be applied to a variety of institutional needs which an applicant has     
  demonstrated serve both the humanities and the institution's long-term              
  objectives. The major purpose of a Challenge Grant is to help institutions and      
  organizations attain or sustain a high level of quality in humanities programs or   
  activities by building long-term capital resources. The most common                 
  expenditure of grant and matching funds is the creation or augmentation of          
  endowments. Also possible are direct expenditures such as library acquisitions,     
  technological enhancement, construction and renovation, and other costs clearly     
  attributable to improvements in humanities programs and activities. Funds may       
  not be used directly for general operating support or undergraduate scholarships    
  and prizes or for projects eligible for support from other NEH programs.            
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Any public or private U.S. nonprofit institution or organization working wholly     
  or in part within the humanities may apply, including the following: two-year       
  and four-year colleges; universities; museums; historical societies; research       
  libraries; public libraries; advanced study centers; media organizations;           
  university presses; professional societies; or State humanities councils. State and 
  local governments and U.S. Territories are eligible to apply on their own behalf    
  or on behalf of nonprofit institutions, associations or organizations within their  


                                                                                 11-08
  jurisdictions. Individuals and public and private elementary and secondary
  schools or school districts are not eligible to apply.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  All applicant organizations and institutions and all users of their humanities
  resources, programs, or activities.
Credentials/Documentation:
  This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None required, but preliminary discussion with Endowment staff and the
  submission of a draft application at least six weeks before the deadline are
  strongly encouraged. The standard application forms as furnished by the
  Endowment and required by OMB Circular No. A-102 must be used for this
  program. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-
  102 and E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applications to NEH must be submitted via Grants.gov. Guidelines and
  application instructions are available online at
  http://www.neh.gov/grants/grants.html.
Award Procedure:
  Applications are reviewed by administrators of humanities institutions, panels of
  scholars, and other appropriate individuals. Awards are made by the Chairman
  of the National Endowment for the Humanities after recommendation by the
  National Council on the Humanities.
Deadlines:
  May 1 for all challenge grants except We the People Challenge Grants in United
  States History, Institutions and Culture, which have a February 1 deadline.
  Deadlines are receipt deadlines. Write or call the NEH Office of Challenge
  Grants.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Seven months (approximately 210 days) after deadline.
Appeals:
  None, but applicants may request written reasons for rejection and reapply with
  a revised proposal.
Renewals:
  Eligibility to apply for a subsequent award begins in the fourth year after the
  close of the previous challenge grant. Eligibility to apply for a subsequent We
  the People challenge grant begins in the second year.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  All challenge grant funds are matching funds. First-time grantees must raise
  three nonfederal dollars for every federal dollar offered; subsequent awards
  require four nonfederal dollars for every federal dollar offered. All We the People
  challenge grants, and all Digital Humanities challenge grants require three
  nonfederal dollars for every Federal dollar offered.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  From one to five years. Funds must be expended during the grant period. Funds
  expended include funds deposited into an income earning account. Federal
  funds up to the amount offered in any year are released as matching amounts are
  certified to the Endowment and minimum annual matching requirements are
  met.
Reports:
  Narrative progress reports are required biennially; reports on nonfederal
  contributions raised and sources of giving are required annually. Final narrative
  and financial reports are due within 90 days after the grant ending date.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133. For nongovernmental recipients, audits are to be carried
  out in accordance with the provisions set forth in OMB Circular No. A-110,
  "Grants and Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and
  Other Nonprofit Organizations Uniform Administrative Requirements" and with
  OMB Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants are subject to inspection and
  audits by NEH and other Federal officials.
Records:
  To be retained by the grantee for three years from the date of submission of the
  final narrative and financial reports. Records include financial documentation on
  all matching gifts and on all expenditures of Federal and matching funds.
Account Identification:
  59-0200-0-1-503.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $10,273,705*; FY 08 est $9,331,000; and FY 09 est $7,082,000.
  *Includes additional funding provided by We the People. See 45.168
  PROMOTION OF THE HUMANITIES-WE THE PEOPLE.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Applicants may request up to $1,000,000 in Federal funds over four years. In
  fiscal year 2007, the largest award offered was $1,000,000, the smallest was
  $200,000; and the average award was approximately $400,000.
                                                                                   809
