PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  In fiscal year 2007, 113 applications were received and 20 awards were made.       
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  45 CFR 1100 and 1105. Guidelines are available online at                           
  http://www.neh.gov/grants/grants.html and upon request from the National           
  Endowment for the Humanities, Washington, DC 20506. Available from the             
  Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, Washington, DC            
  20402, is the Endowment's official publication, "Humanities" by subscription (6    
  issues annually, $24.00 domestic, $30.00 foreign).                                 
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Office of Challenge Grants, Room 420, National Endowment for the                   
  Humanities, Washington, DC 20506. (202) 606- 8309. Use the same number             
  for FTS.                                                                           
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.neh.gov.                                                                
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  45.168, Promotion of the Humanities_We the People.                                 
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  (1) A community college will use its $500,000 challenge grant to endow a           
  humanities institute in partnership with a major museum. (2) A liberal arts        
  college will use its $625,000 We the People challenge grant to restore an historic 
  house as a residence for research fellows and an endowment for fellowships to      
  study the Founding Era and its legacy. (3) A public library will use its $500,000  
  challenge grant to restore and enhance technology in its historic building. (4) A  
  museum will use its $575,000 challenge grant as the cornerstone of a larger        
  fund-raising campaign for an endowment to support a new regional art center.       
  (5) A professional humanities association is using its $246,000 challenge grant    
  to endow staff positions in humanities educational programming.                    
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  To reach decisions about funding, all reviewers of Challenge Grants applications   
  are asked to evaluate the existing and potential quality of an applicant's         
  programs in the humanities, its needs, management, and fund-raising capability.    
  In light of the goals of the Challenge Grants Program, reviewers assess each       
  application in accordance with the following criteria: (1) The significance of     
  existing and planned humanities activities. (2) The appropriateness of             
  institutional resources and plans. (3) The impact of challenge grant funds. (4)    
  The feasibility of fund raising. Applicants for second or subsequent awards must   
  describe and assess the effects of their prior awards.                             
                                                                                     
45.149 PROMOTION OF THE HUMANITIES-DIVISION OF                                       
                                                                                     
PRESERVATION AND ACCESS                                                              
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE HUMANITIES, NATIONAL                                    
  FOUNDATION ON THE ARTS AND THE HUMANITIES                                          
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, as amended,        
  Public Law 89-209, 20 U.S.C. 951 et seq.                                           
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To fund projects that will promote preserving, creating, and providing             
  intellectual access to resources held in libraries, museums, archives, historical  
  organizations, and other collections that are important for research, education,   
  and public programming in the humanities.                                          
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Grants support: the digitization, arrangement, description, and preservation of    
  archival collections, still and moving images, and recorded sound collections;     
  the documentation of collections of art and material culture; projects to produce  
  research tools and reference works such as databases and electronic archives,      
  bibliographies, dictionaries, and encyclopedias; professional training in          
  preservation administration and in the care of collections; the stabilization of   
  humanities collections; the work of regional preservation services; general        
  preservation assessments and special consultations for smaller cultural            
  institutions; research and development projects to develop technical standards,    
  best practices, and tools for preserving and creating access to humanities         
  collections; projects to document endangered languages; and a national program     
  for the digitization of historic U.S. newspapers. Expenses may include salaries    
  and wages, consultant and other contract services, supplies and limited            
  equipment purchases, travel, and per diem.                                         
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  State and local governments; sponsored organizations; public and private           
  nonprofit institutions/organizations; other public institutions/organizations;     
  Federally recognized Indian tribal governments; Native American organizations;     
  U.S. Territories; non-government-general; minority organizations; and other        
  specialized groups; quasi-public nonprofit institutions.                           
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  State and local governments; sponsored organizations; public and private           


810                                                                            11-08

  nonprofit institutions/organizations; other public institutions/organizations;
  Federally recognized Indian tribal governments; Native American organizations;
  U.S. Territories; non-government-general; minority organizations; and other
  specialized groups; quasi-public nonprofit institutions.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State
  and local governments. OMB Circular No. A-21 for educational institutions and
  OMB Circular No. A-122 for commercial and nonprofit organizations.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Before submitting a proposal, applicants are encouraged to contact program
  officers who can offer advice about preparing the proposal and, in some
  programs, read draft applications. The standard application forms as furnished
  by the Federal agency and required by OMB Circular No. A-102 must be used
  for this program. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applications to NEH must be submitted via Grants.gov. Guidelines and
  application instructions are available online at
  http://www.neh.gov/grants/grants.html. This program is subject to the provisions
  of OMB Circular No. A-110.
Award Procedure:
  Applications are evaluated by scholars in the humanities, museum curators,
  professionals with expert knowledge of preservation and access methodologies
  and administrators of libraries, archives, and museums. Awards are made by the
  Chairman of the National Endowment for the Humanities after recommendation
  by the National Council on the Humanities.
Deadlines:
  March 18 for Advancing Knowledge applications; May 14 for Preservation
  Assistance Grants for Smaller Institutions applications; July 1 for Education and
  Training applications and for Research and Development applications; July 15
  for Humanities Collections and Resources applications; September 15 for
  Documenting Endangered Language applications; October 1 for Stabilizing
  Humanities Collections applications; and November 4, for National Digital
  Newspaper Program applications. Write to the Division of Preservation and
  Access for specific information.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 7 months.
Appeals:
  None, but applicant may reapply with a revised proposal.
Renewals:
  Renewal grants are processed and awarded in competition with and in the same
  manner as new applications.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Cost sharing consists of the cash contributions made to the project by the
  applicant, third parties and other federal agencies, as well as third party in-kind
  contributions, such as donated services and goods. Cost sharing includes gift
  money that will be raised to release federal matching funds. Cost sharing is not
  required. NEH, however, is rarely able to support the full costs of projects
  approved for funding. Consult the individual program guidelines for more
  information.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Up to 24 months. Funds must be expended during the grant period. Funds are
  released as required.
Reports:
  Progress reports are required semiannually or annually. Cash reports are required
  quarterly. Final progress and expenditures reports are due within 90 days after
  completion or termination of project support by NEH.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133. For nongovernmental recipients, audits are to be carried
  out in accordance with the provisions set forth in OMB Circular No. A-110,
  "Grants and Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and
  Other Nonprofit Organizations Uniform Administrative Requirements" and with
  OMB Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants are subject to inspection and
  audits by NEH and other Federal officials.
Records:
  Documentation of expenditures and other fiscal records must be retained for
  three years following the submission of the final expenditure report.
Account Identification:
  59-0200-0-1-503.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $23,905,060*; FY 08 est $18,380,000; and FY 09 est $13,861,000.
  *Includes additional funding provided by NEH Treasury matching grants and by
  We the People. See 45.168 PROMOTION OF THE HUMANITIES-WE THE
  PEOPLE.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
