  FY 07 from $5,000 to $650,000; average $325,000.                                   
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  In FY 07, 417 applications were received and 183 awards were made.                 
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  45 CFR 1100 and 1105. Guidelines are available online at                           
  http://www.neh.gov/grants.html or upon request from National Endowment for         
  the Humanities, Washington, DC 20506. It is also available from the                
  Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, Washington, DC            
  20402, is the Endowment's official publication, "Humanities" by subscription (6    
  issues annually, $24.00 domestic, $30.00 foreign).                                 
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Division of Preservation and Access, National Endowment for the Humanities,        
  Room 411, Washington, DC 20506. Telephone: (202) 606-8570. Use the same            
  number for FTS. Fax: (202) 606-8639. E-mail: PRESERVATION@NEH.GOV.                 
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.neh.gov.                                                                
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  45.164, Promotion of the Humanities_Public Programs.                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  (1) an award to a university to digitize 100,000 pages of historic state           
  newspapers; (2) an award to a historic house museum to install climate control     
  and fire suppression systems to preserve material culture, library and archival    
  collections; (3) an award to a university to train hundreds of humanities scholars 
  and graduate students in digital text coding; (4) an award to a state university to
  develop and test best practices for preserving analog sound recordings by          
  converting them into digital form; (5) an award to a historical society to hire a  
  consultant to conduct a preservation assessment and develop a long-range           
  preservation plan for the society's library, archival, and material culture        
  collections; (6) an award to a university to compile a digital reference work on   
  the changes in the boundaries, names, and organization of every U.S. county        
  from 1619 to 2000; (7) an award to a university and public library to explore      
  best practices for monitoring and evaluating environmental storage conditions in   
  cultural repositories.                                                             
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  The criteria used to determine funding priorities include the significance and     
  potential impact of the project, either for creating, preserving, and establishing 
  intellectual access to important humanities resources or for improving the         
  infrastructure for preservation and access activities in the country's academic    
  and cultural institutions; the soundness of the project's methodology, including   
  its adherence to accepted professional and technical standards or practice; the    
  viability, efficiency, and productivity of the project's plan of work; the         
  professional training and experience of the project's staff in relation to the     
  activity for which support is requested; and the appropriateness of the project's  
  budget. Preference is given to projects that provide free, online access to digital
  materials produced with grant funds.                                               
                                                                                     
45.160 PROMOTION OF THE HUMANITIES-                                                  
                                                                                     
FELLOWSHIPS AND STIPENDS

                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE HUMANITIES, NATIONAL                                    
  FOUNDATION ON THE ARTS AND THE HUMANITIES                                          
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, as amended,        
  Public Law 89-209, 20 U.S.C. 951 et seq.                                           
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  Fellowships and Summer Stipends provide support for scholars to undertake          
  full-time independent research and writing in the humanities. Grants are           
  available for 6 to 12-month fellowships and 2 months of summer study. Faculty      
  Research Awards strengthen research and teaching at Historically Black or          
  Tribal Colleges and Universities or Institutions with High Hispanic Enrollment.    
  Teaching Development Fellowships strengthen teaching at undergraduate              
  institutions through research fellowships of 3 to 5 months.                        
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants (Fellowships).                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Fellowships and Summer Stipends: Projects may contribute to scholarly              
  knowledge or to the general public's understanding of the humanities. The          
  proposed study or research may be completed during the grant period or it may      
  be part of a longer project. Faculty Research Awards assist full-time faculty      
  members as they engage in advanced research in the humanities. These awards        
  are restricted to Historically Black or Tribal Colleges and Universities or        
  Institutions with High Hispanic Enrollment, as designated by the White House       
  offices charged with the implementation of Executive Orders 12876, 13230,          
  13021, and to faculty members at these institutions. Teaching Development          
  Fellowships support research designed to strengthen undergraduate teaching.        
  Applications for planning institutional curricula, for educational research        
  projects, for the creation or performance of works of art, and that lack           


                                                                                11-08
  humanities content or methodology are not eligible.
Applicant Eligibility:
  All applicants must be U.S. citizens, native residents of U.S. jurisdictions,
  foreign nationals who have been legal residents in the U.S. or its jurisdictions for
  at least the three years immediately preceding the application deadline.
  Fellowships: Faculty members at colleges and universities, individuals affiliated
  with other institutions, independent scholars, and others who work in the
  humanities are eligible. Applicants need not have advanced degrees, but they
  must have completed their formal academic training. Active candidates for
  degrees and persons seeking support for work leading to degrees are not eligible.
  Summer Stipends: University and college faculty members must be nominated
  by their academic institutions. Faculty members with terminating appointments,
  independent scholars, and nonfaculty college and university staff members are
  exempt from nomination and may apply directly. Faculty Research Awards are
  offered to full-time faculty members at Historically Black or Tribal Colleges and
  Universities or Institutions with High Hispanic Enrollment, as designated by the
  White House offices charged with the implementation of Executive Orders
  12876, 13230, 13021. Teaching Development Fellowships: Full-time faculty
  members at colleges and universities.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Fellowships and Stipends: College and university faculty and staff, individuals
  affiliated with institutions other than colleges and universities, and scholars and
  writers working independently. Faculty Research Awards: faculty members at
  Historically Black or Tribal Colleges and Universities or Institutions with High
  Hispanic Enrollment. Teaching Development Fellowships: College and
  university faculty.
Credentials/Documentation:
  This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular Nos. A-102 and
  E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applications to NEH must be submitted via Grants.gov. Fellowships, Summer
  Stipends, and Teaching Development Fellowships application materials are
  available online at http://www.neh.gov and from the headquarters office. This
  program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-110. For Faculty
  Research Awards: NEH application instructions are available online
  (http://www.neh.gov) or upon request to the Research division. This program is
  subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110.
Award Procedure:
  Applications are reviewed by panels of scholars and other appropriate
  individuals. Awards are made by the Chairman of the National Endowment for
  the Humanities after advice from the National Council on the Humanities.
Deadlines:
  Fellowships: Annual receipt deadline of May 1, for projects beginning after
  January 1 of the following year. Summer Stipends: annual receipt deadline of
  October 1, for projects beginning after May 1 of the following year. Faculty
  Research Awards: Annual receipt deadline of May 1 for projects beginning after
  January 1 of the following year. Teaching Development Fellowships: Annual
  receipt deadline of October 1 for projects beginning as early as the following
  June 1.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Five to seven months.
Appeals:
  None, but applicant may reapply.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements. Source:
  Program Guidelines. Contact: See Headquarters Office below.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Fellowships are held from 6 to 12 months, with payment in quarterly
  installments. Summer Stipends are held for 2 consecutive months, with stipends
  disbursed in one payment. Faculty Research Awards may support activities over
  2 years.
Reports:
  A final report is required within 90 days after the end of the tenure period
  describing the results of the work done during the period of the award.
Audits:
  Subject to audit by Endowment auditors or their representatives.
Records:
  Not applicable.
Account Identification:
  59-0200-0-1-503.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $6,796,000*; FY 08 est $5,338,000; and FY 09 est $5,338,000. *Includes
  additional funding provided by We the People. See 45.168 PROMOTION OF
  THE HUMANITIES-WE THE PEOPLE.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Fellowships, Faculty Research Awards, and Teaching Development Fellowships:
                                                                                    811
