  An award of $4,200 per month for a grant period of from 3 to 12 months.              
  Summer Stipends: All awards are $6,000 for a grant period of 8 weeks.                
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  In FY 07, 2,289 applications were received and 240 awards were made.                 
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  45 CFR 1100 and 1105. Fellowship, Faculty Research Award, and Summer                 
  Stipends guidelines are available online at                                          
  http://www.neh.gov/grants/grantsbydivision.html#research. For assistance,            
  contact the National Endowment for the Humanities, 1100 Pennsylvania Ave.,           
  NW., Washington, DC 20506. Available from the Superintendent of Documents,           
  Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402, is the Endowment's                 
  official publication, "Humanities" by subscription (6 issues annually, $24.00        
  domestic, $33.60 foreign).                                                           
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  None.                                                                                
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Division of Research Programs, National Endowment for the Humanities, Room           
  318, 1100 Pennsylvania Ave., N.W., Washington, DC 20506. Telephone: (202)            
  606-8200. Use the same number for FTS.                                               
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.neh.gov.                                                                  
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  45.161, Promotion of the Humanities_Research.                                        
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  (1) Fellowships: America's Soviet Experts in the Cold War; (2) Summer                
  Stipends: Cultural Institutions of the Transatlantic World, 1930-1970; (3)           
  Faculty Research Awards: An Environmental History of China; (4) Teaching             
  Development Fellowships: Research for the improvement of a course on the             
  Western tradition in literary studies.                                               
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  For Fellowships, Summer Stipends, and Faculty Research Awards: The                   
  intellectual significance of the proposed project, including its value to scholars   
  and general audiences in the humanities; the quality or promise of quality of the    
  applicant's work as an interpreter of the humanities; the quality of the             
  conception, definition, organization, and description of the project and the         
  applicant's clarity of expression; the feasibility of the proposed plan of work,     
  including, when appropriate, the soundness of the dissemination and access           
  plans; and, the likelihood that the applicant will complete the project. For         
  Teaching Development Fellowships: The project's intellectual significance,           
  including its value for undergraduate teaching; the quality of the applicant's       
  intellectual work as preparation for undertaking the proposed research; the          
  quality of the conception, definition, organization, and description of the          
  research project and the applicant's clarity of expression; and the feasibility of   
  the proposed plan of work and the likelihood that the applicant will complete the    
  project.                                                                             
                                                                                       
45.161 PROMOTION OF THE HUMANITIES-RESEARCH                                            
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE HUMANITIES, NATIONAL                                      
  FOUNDATION ON THE ARTS AND THE HUMANITIES                                            
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, as amended,          
  Public Law 89-209, 20 U.S.C. 951 et seq.                                             
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To strengthen the intellectual foundations of the humanities through the             
  collaboration of scholars and the support of post-doctoral fellowship programs at    
  independent research institutions and at digital humanities centers.                 
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Collaborative Research and Scholarly Editions grants support up to three years       
  of research. Awards support direct costs, including salaries, travel, supplies, and  
  appropriate research assistance and consultation. Grants also support fellowships    
  offered through independent research centers and institutions and through digital    
  humanities centers.                                                                  
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  For Collaborative Research and Scholarly Editions, institutions of higher            
  education, nonprofit professional associations, scholarly societies, and other       
  nonprofit organizations in the United States may apply, as may eligible              
  individuals (U.S. citizens and foreign nationals who have been living in the         
  United States or its jurisdictions for at least the three years immediately prior to 
  the time of application). For support of fellowship programs, U.S. independent       
  research centers, scholarly societies, and international research organizations      
  with existing fellowship programs may apply. For digital humanities                  
  fellowships, digital humanities centers affiliated with either American              
  institutions of higher education or U.S. nonprofit organizations or institutions     
  with IRS 501 (C) (3) tax exempt status may apply. Individual scholar eligibility     
  is the same as described above.                                                      
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               


812                                                                              11-08

  U.S. citizens and residents, State and local governments, sponsored
  organizations, public and private nonprofit institutions/organizations, other
  public institutions/organizations, Federally recognized Indian tribal
  governments, Native American organizations, U.S. territories; non-
  governmental-general; minority organizations, other specialized groups; and
  quasi-public nonprofit institutions benefit.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Cost will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State
  and local governments. Costs will also be determined in accordance with OMB
  Circular No. A-122 for nonprofit organizations and OMB Circular No. A-21 for
  educational institutions.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Prior to submitting a proposal, applicants are encouraged to contact program
  officers who can offer advice about preparing the proposal, and review draft
  proposals. These comments are not part of the formal review process and have
  no bearing on the final outcome of the proposal, but applicants in other
  programs have found them helpful in strengthening their applications. Program
  staff recommend that draft proposals be submitted six weeks before the deadline.
  Time restraints may prevent staff from reviewing draft proposals submitted after
  that date. Draft proposals may be submitted by e-mail attachment to:
  odh@neh.gov This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applications to NEH must be submitted via Grants.gov. NEH application
  instructions are available online (http://www.neh.gov/grants/grants.html) or
  upon request to the Division of Research Programs. This program is subject to
  the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110.
Award Procedure:
  Applications are reviewed by subject area specialists, panels of scholars, and
  other appropriate individuals outside the agency. Awards are made by the
  Chairman of the National Endowment for the Humanities after recommendation
  by the National Council on the Humanities.
Deadlines:
  October 16 and April 2 for Digital Humanities Start-Up Grant applications;
  April 9 for Institutes for Advanced Topics in the Digital Humanities
  applications; and July 15 for NEH/DOE Humanities High Performance
  Computing Program applications. E-Mail the Office of Digital Humanities for
  specific information.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  For Collaborative Research, Scholarly Editions and fellowship programs offered
  through independent research centers and international research organizations,
  approximately seven months. For Fellowships at Digital Humanities Centers,
  approximately six months.
Appeals:
  None, but applicant may reapply with a revised proposal.
Renewals:
  Renewal applications are eligible; they are evaluated in competition with new
  applications.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Cost sharing consists of the cash contributions made to the project by the
  applicant, third parties and other federal agencies, as well as third party in-kind
  contributions, such as donated services and goods. Cost sharing includes gift
  money that will be raised to release federal matching funds. Cost sharing is not
  required. NEH, however, is rarely able to support the full costs of projects
  approved for funding. Consult the individual program guidelines for more
  information.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Up to 36 months for Collaborative Research, Scholarly Editions, and Fellowship
  Programs at Independent Research Institutions. Funds are released as required
  and must be expended during the grant period. For Fellowships at Digital
  Humanities Centers, six to twelve months.
Reports:
  For Collaborative Research, Scholarly Editions, and Fellowship Programs at
  Independent Research Institutions: Progress reports are required at least
  annually, no more frequently than quarterly. Cash reports are required quarterly.
  Final progress and expenditure reports are due within 90 days after completion
  or termination of project support by NEH. For Fellowships at Digital
  Humanities Centers: Cash reports are required quarterly. A final performance
  report from the center that incorporates a report by the visiting fellow is
  required. Final performance and financial status reports are due within 90 days
  after the completion date of the award period.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133. For nongovernmental recipients, audits are to be carried
  out in accordance with the provisions set forth in OMB Circular No. A-110,
  "Grants and Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and
