Code: 050; 
Function: National Defense. 

Common defense and security of the United States. It encompasses the: 

* raising, equipping, and maintaining of armed forces (including 
civilian support activities), development and utilization of weapons 
systems (including nuclear weapons), and related programs. 

* direct compensation and benefits paid to active military and civilian 
personnel and contributions to their retirement, health, and life 
insurance funds;[A]. 

* defense research, development, testing, and evaluation; and, 

* procurement, construction, stockpiling, and other activities 
undertaken to directly foster national security. 

Excludes: 

* benefits or compensation to veterans and their dependents and 
military and civil service retirees. 

* the peaceful conduct of foreign relations. 

* foreign military, economic, and humanitarian assistance. 

* subsidies to businesses by civilian agencies (such as maritime 
subsidies) that may be partially justified as promoting national 
security; and, 

* research and operations of agencies (such as space research) whose 
program missions are not directly designed to promote national defense 
but could result in some significant benefits to our national security. 

Subcode: 051; 
Subfunction: Department of Defense--Military. 

With minor exceptions, entire agency is included in this subfunction. 

Subcode: 053; 
Subfunction: Atomic energy defense activities. 

Department of Energy programs devoted to national defense, such as 
naval ship reactors and nuclear weapons. 

Subcode: 054; 
Subfunction: Defense-related activities. 

Miscellaneous defense activities, such as the expenses connected with 
selective services and with defense stockpiles outside of the 
Departments of Defense and Energy. 

Code: 150; 
Function: International Affairs. 

Maintaining peaceful relations, commerce, and travel between the United 
States and the rest of the world and promoting international security 
and economic development abroad. (Excludes outlays from domestic 
programs that may tangentially affect foreign relations or the citizens 
of other nations.) 

Subcode: 151; 
Subfunction: International development and humanitarian assistance. 

Humanitarian assistance, development assistance, security support 
assistance, grants to and investments in international financial and 
development institutions, and the budgetary costs associated with 
concessionary agricultural exports. 

Subcode: 152; 
Subfunction: International security assistance. 

The transfer of defense articles and services to foreign governments, 
including grants, credit sales, and training. Excludes the military 
sales trust fund, which is classified under subfunction 155 
(international financial programs). 

Subcode: 153; 
Subfunction: Conduct of foreign affairs. 

Diplomatic and consular operations of the Department of State, assessed 
contributions to international organizations, and closely related 
activities in other agencies (such as the Arms Control and Disarmament 
Agency). 

Subcode: 154; 
Subfunction: Foreign information and exchange activities. 

Student and cultural exchange programs and foreign library, radio, or 
other media information activities designed to promote mutual 
understanding between the people of the United States and other 
nations. 

Subcode: 155; 
Subfunction: International financial programs. 

Export credit, the military sales trust fund, international commodity 
agreements, international monetary programs, and other programs 
designed to improve the functioning of the international financial 
system. For pre-1992 direct loans or loan guarantees, includes the 
total cash flows on these loans and guarantees. For loans or loan 
guarantees obligated or committed after 1991, includes the credit 
subsidy costs of the loans or guarantees. 

Code: 250; 
Function: General Science, Space, and Technology. 

Budget resources allocated to science and research activities of the 
federal government that are not an integral part of the programs 
conducted under any other function. 

Includes the research conducted by the National Science Foundation, all 
space programs conducted by the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration, and general science research supported by the 
Department of Energy. Includes research and technology programs that 
have diverse goals and cannot readily be classified under one specific 
function to avoid detailed splitting of accounts. 

Subcode: 251; 
Subfunction: General science and basic research. 

Conducting the National Science Foundation programs and the general 
science activities of the Department of Energy. 

Subcode: 252; 
Subfunction: Space flight, research, and supporting activities. 

Development and operation of space transportation systems, basic 
scientific research connected with outer space, research and 
demonstrations designed to promote terrestrial applications of 
technology developed through space research, and development of new 
space technologies for future flight missions. Also includes costs of 
tracking and data relay support for the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration space science and applications for flight missions. 

Code: 270; 
Function: Energy. 

Promoting an adequate supply and appropriate use of energy to serve the 
needs of the economy. Included are the energy programs of the 
Department of Energy and its predecessor agencies. Excludes atomic 
energy defense activities and general science research not closely 
related to energy. 

Subcode: 271; 
Subfunction: Energy supply. 

Increasing the supply of energy through the development of domestic 
resources and systems capable of using them. Includes the costs of 
research and demonstration of supply systems. 

Subcode: 272; 
Subfunction: Energy conservation. 

Encouraging the prudent use of energy resources. 

Subcode: 274; 
Subfunction: Emergency energy preparedness. 

Developing and maintaining a stockpile of energy resources (currently 
confined to petroleum) to meet emergency needs and associated 
contingency planning activities. 

Subcode: 276; 
Subfunction: Energy information, policy, and regulation. 

Unallocable overhead activities of the Department of Energy plus the 
costs of energy information and regulation activities. 

Code: 300; 
Function: Natural Resources and Environment. 

Developing, managing, and maintaining the nation's natural resources 
and environment. Excludes the outlays for community water supply 
programs, basic sewer systems, and waste treatment plants, all of which 
are part of a community or regional development (rather than an 
environmental enhancement) program or are part of the cost of operating 
a federal facility (such as a military installation). 

Subcode: 301; 
Subfunction: Water resources. 

Water protection, conservation, irrigation, and related activities, 
including the total costs of multipurpose water projects where it is 
not feasible to separate the transportation (navigation) or energy 
(power) segments of these projects. 

Subcode: 302; 
Subfunction: Conservation and land management. 

Maintaining the public domain and national forests, encouraging 
conservation of private land, and reclaiming surface mining areas. 

Subcode: 303; 
Subfunction: Recreational resources. 

Acquisition, improvement, and operation of recreational lands and 
facilities, including fish, wildlife, and parks; also preserving 
historic areas. 

Subcode: 304; 
Subfunction: Pollution control and abatement. 

Controlling and reducing air, water, and land pollution, or enhancing 
the environment. Excludes water resources programs, water treatment 
plants, and similar programs that are not funded as part of an 
environmental enhancement activity. 

Subcode: 306; 
Subfunction: Other natural resources. 

Miscellaneous natural resources programs, not classified under other 
subfunctions, such as marine-, earth-, and atmosphere-related research 
and geological surveys and mapping. 

Code: 350; 
Function: Agriculture. 

Promoting the economic stability of agriculture and the nation's 
capability to maintain and increase agricultural production. Excludes 
programs that though related to rural development, are not directly 
related to agriculture, such as rural environmental and conservation 
programs classified in the natural resourc	es function. Also excludes 
concessionary food export sales or food donations, whether overseas or 
for domestic income support purposes. 

Subcode: 351; 
Subfunction: Farm income stabilization. 

Subsidies and other payments to stabilize agricultural prices at an 
equitable level. Includes acquiring and storing agricultural commodity 
stockpiles, but does not include foreign agricultural export losses 
(classified in the international affairs function) or domestic 
donations of food (part of an income support, rather than a farm price 
support, program). Includes the total cash flows of farm price support 
loans (that is, loans that can be repaid in cash or by surrendering 
title to the crop used as security for the loan), which are not subject 
to credit reform. For all other agricultural loans and loan guarantees, 
includes either the total cash flows (for pre-1992 loans and loan 
guarantees) or the subsidy cost (for loans and loan guarantees subject 
to credit reform). 

Subcode: 352; 
Subfunction: Agricultural research and services. 

All other agricultural programs, such as agricultural research and 
extension services. 

Code: 370; 
Function: Commerce and Housing Credit. 

Promotion and regulation of commerce and the housing credit and deposit 
insurance industries, which pertain to: 

* collection and dissemination of social and economic data (unless they 
are an integral part of another function, such as health). 

* general purpose subsidies to businesses, including credit subsidies 
to the housing industry (for programs subject to credit reform, 
includes only the credit subsidy costs of loans and loan guarantees); 
and: 

* the Postal Service fund and general fund subsidies of that fund. 

In general, includes credit and insurance programs; however, if such 
programs are a means of achieving the basic objectives of another 
function and are an integral part of the programs of that function, 
they are classified under the other function. 

Excludes regional economic development programs, even if they use 
credit or insurance to achieve a community development objective. Also 
excludes other insurance or loan programs (such as railroad loans) that 
are an integral part of other functions. 

Subcode: 371; 
Subfunction: Mortgage credit. 

Includes the cash transactions for homeownership and related loan and 
insurance programs for pre-credit reform activity; under credit reform, 
includes the credit subsidy cost of any homeownership loans or 
guarantees. 

Subcode: 372; 
Subfunction: Postal Service. 

Any net outlays of the Postal Service included in the budget (or off-
budget). 

Subcode: 373; 
Subfunction: Deposit insurance. 

Insurance programs protecting deposits in certain financial 
institutions; programs to resolve failed institutions. Deposit 
insurance activities are not subject to credit reform, so the budget 
records the cash flows for deposit insurance rather than their subsidy 
values. 

Subcode: 376; 
Subfunction: Other advancement of commerce. 

Loan programs to aid specialized forms of business (such as small 
business) that are not included elsewhere in the functional structure. 
For such transactions undertaken prior to credit reform, includes the 
total cash flows. For activities under credit reform, includes the 
credit subsidy cost of the loans or guarantees. Also includes 
collecting and disseminating economic and demographic statistics (such 
as census data) and regulating business. 

Code: 400; 
Function: Transportation. 

Providing for the transportation of the general public, its property, 
or both, regardless of whether local or national and regardless of the 
particular mode of transportation. Includes: 

* construction of facilities. 

* purchase of equipment. 

* research, testing, and evaluation. 

* provision of communications directly related to transportation (for 
example, air traffic control by the Federal Aviation Administration). 

* operating subsidies for transportation facilities (such as airports) 
and industries (such as railroads); and: 

* regulatory activities directed specifically toward the transportation 
industry rather than toward business. 

Excludes: 

* moving personnel or equipment as part of the operation of other 
government services. 

* foreign economic assistance that may involve assisting transportation 
facilities or programs abroad. 

* the construction of roads or trails as an integral part of the 
operation of public lands, parks, forests, or military reservations, 
unless they are specifically funded as a part of a broader 
transportation program. 

* the construction of roads or other transportation facilities as an 
integral part of a broad community facility or regional development 
program where the clear intent of the program is regional development 
and the provision of transportation facilities is only an incidental by-
product or means to attain the objective of regional development; and: 

* research and technology activities devoted to space research (except 
aeronautical technology), even though this research may eventually 
benefit general transportation. 

Subcode: 401; 
Subfunction: Ground transportation. 

Aid, and/or regulation of both for the various components of ground 
transportation, such as roads and highways, railroads, and urban mass 
transit. 

Subcode: 402; 
Subfunction: Air transportation. 

Aid for and/or regulation of air transportation, including aeronautical 
research conducted by the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration. 

Subcode: 403; 
Subfunction: Water transportation. 

Aid for and/or regulation of maritime commerce. 

Subcode: 407; 
Subfunction: Other transportation. 

General transportation programs and overhead not readily allocable to 
any of the preceding subfunctions. 

Code: 450; 
Function: Community and Regional Development. 

Development of physical facilities or financial infrastructures 
designed to promote viable community economies. Includes transportation 
facilities developed as an integral part of a community development 
program (rather than a transportation program). Usually excludes aids 
to businesses unless such aids promote the economic development of 
depressed areas and are not designed to promote particular lines of 
business for their own sake. Usually excludes human development and 
services programs. 

Subcode: 451; 
Subfunction: Community development. 

Grants and related programs designed to aid largely urban community 
development. Includes community development block grants and 
predecessor activities, such as the urban renewal and model cities 
programs. These programs are generally carried out by the Department of 
Housing and Urban Development. 

Subcode: 452; 
Subfunction: Area and regional development. 

Grants, loans, subsidies, and related aids for the economic development 
of depressed areas. For pre-credit reform loans, includes the total 
cash flows of the loans; for loans under credit reform, includes the 
credit subsidy cost of the loans. All these aids are generally for 
rural areas or are more regional than the community development 
programs. Area and regional development programs are generally carried 
out by agencies other than the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development, such as the Farmers Home Administration, Economic 
Development Administration, and Bureau of Indian Affairs. 

Subcode: 453; 
Subfunction: Disaster relief and insurance. 

Helping communities and families recover from natural disasters. 

Code: 500; 
Function: Education, Training, Employment, and Social Services. 

Promoting the extension of knowledge and skills, enhancing employment 
and employment opportunities, protecting workplace standards, and 
providing services to the needy. Excludes education or training 
undertaken as an integral part of the achievement of other functions 
(such as training military personnel; veterans education, training, and 
rehabilitation; or training of health workers in a health program). 
Nutrition or food service programs funded separately from social 
services or education are not part of this function--they are 
classified as income security. 

Subcode: 501; 
Subfunction: Elementary, secondary, and vocational education. 

Preschool, elementary, secondary, and vocational education programs. 

Subcode: 502; 
Subfunction: Higher education. 

College and graduate school programs. 

Subcode: 503; 
Subfunction: Research and general education aids. 

Education research and assistance for the arts, the humanities, 
educational radio and television, public libraries, and museums. 

Subcode: 504; 
Subfunction: Training and employment. 

Job or skill training, employment services and placement, and payments 
to employers to subsidize employment. 

Subcode: 505; 
Subfunction: Other labor services. 

Aids to or regulation of the labor market, including gathering labor 
statistics and mediation and conciliation services; excludes employment 
and training programs and occupational safety and health programs. 

Subcode: 506; 
Subfunction: Social services. 

Programs that provide a broad range of services to individuals to help 
them improve their vocational capabilities (such as vocational 
rehabilitation) or family status; services to the poor and elderly that 
are not primarily for income support and that are not an integral part 
of some other function (such as social services block grants). 

Code: 550; 
Function: Health. 

Programs other than Medicare whose basic purpose is to promote physical 
and mental health, including the prevention of illness and accidents. 
Excludes the Medicare program, the largest federal health program, 
which by law is in a separate function (function 570). Also excludes 
federal health care for military personnel (051) and veterans (703). 
Also excludes general scientific research that has medical applications 
(such as that conducted by the National Science Foundation) and health 
programs financed through foreign assistance programs. 

Subcode: 551; 
Subfunction: Health care services. 

Medical services to individuals and families, whether such services are 
provided directly by the federal government or financed through grants, 
contracts, insurance, or reimbursements. 

Subcode: 552; 
Subfunction: Health research and training. 

All research programs--whether basic or applied--that are financed 
specifically as health or medical research. Excludes research that is 
an integral part of other functions (such as biomedical research in the 
space program). 

Subcode: 554; 
Subfunction: Consumer and occupational health and safety. 

Meat and poultry inspection, food and drug inspection, consumer product 
safety, and occupational health and safety. 

Code: 570; 
Function: Medicare. 

Federal hospital insurance and federal supplementary medical insurance, 
along with general fund subsidies of these funds and associated 
offsetting receipts. 

Subcode: 571; 
Subfunction: Medicare. 

Entire Medicare function. 

Code: 600; 
Function: Income Security. 

Support payments (including associated administrative expenses) to 
persons for whom no current service is rendered. Includes retirement, 
disability, unemployment, welfare, and similar programs, except for 
Social Security and income security for veterans, which are in other 
functions. Also includes the Food Stamp, Special Milk, and Child 
Nutrition programs (whether the benefits are in cash or in kind); both 
federal and trust fund unemployment compensation and workers' 
compensation; public assistance cash payments; benefits to the elderly 
and to coal miners; and low-and moderate-income housing benefits. 

Excludes (1) financial assistance for education, (2) medical care 
(whether in cash or in kind), (3) subsidies to businesses (such as farm 
price supports), and (4) reimbursement for child care services, even 
though any of these may end up as income to persons. Also excludes 
income security programs included in the Social Security function 
(function 650) and programs restricted to veterans and their 
dependents. 

Subcode: 601; 
Subfunction: General retirement and disability insurance (excluding 
Social Security). 

Non-needs-tested retirement and disability programs composed mainly of 
the Railroad Retirement Fund and special benefits for coal 	miners. 
Excludes programs specifically restricted to federal employees. 

Subcode: 602; 
Subfunction: Federal employee retirement and disability. 

All funded retirement and disability programs restricted to federal 
employees. Includes military retirement benefits for all years, not 
just the years since the military retirement program began as a funded 
trust fund (1985). In cases where retirement benefits are not funded 
(such as in the case of Coast Guard retired pay), includes the cash 
benefits where the employees were employed (in the Coast Guard case, 
transportation), because otherwise those functions would never be 
charged for the retirement costs of their employees. 

Subcode: 603; 
Subfunction: Unemployment compensation. 

Benefits not conditioned by needs tests for unemployed workers. 
Excludes other benefits (such as food stamps) that an unemployed person 
might be eligible for under other programs. 

Subcode: 604; 
Subfunction: Housing assistance. 

Federal income support and related expenses that are specifically for 
financing or providing housing for individuals and families. Excludes 
loans, loan guarantees, or insurance. (The distinction between the 
housing assistance included in subfunction 604 and the mortgage credit 
assistance in subfunction 371 is that the subfunction 604 payments 
focus on subsidies to increase beneficiaries' effective income, whereas 
the credit subsidies in subfunction 371 are primarily aimed at 
encouraging the housing industry.) 

Subcode: 605; 
Subfunction: Food and nutrition assistance. 

Providing food or nutritional assistance to individuals and families. 

Subcode: 609; 
Subfunction: Other income security. 

Income security programs not included in any other subfunction. 
Primarily either direct payments or grants-in-aid to finance direct 
payments that constitute cash income to low-income individuals and 
families. Also includes refugee assistance and both administrative 
expenses and offsetting collections in the income security function 
that are not part of any other subfunction. 

Code: 650; 
Function: Social Security. 

Federal Old-Age and Survivors and Disability Insurance Trust Funds, 
along with general fund subsidies of these funds and associated 
offsetting collections. 

Subcode: 651; 
Subfunction: Social Security. 

Includes the entire Social Security function. 

Code: 700; 
Function: Veterans Benefits and Services. 

Programs providing benefits and services, the eligibility for which is 
related to prior military service, but the financing of which is not an 
integral part of the costs of national defense. As a rule, the outlays 
in this function are similar to those in the broader general purpose 
functions (such as income security or health), but restricted to 
veterans, their dependents, and their survivors. Excludes earned rights 
of career military personnel that are a cost of the defense budget 
(such as military retired pay or medical care). 

Subcode: 701; 
Subfunction: Income security for veterans. 

Veterans' compensation, life insurance, pensions, and burial benefits. 

Subcode: 702; 
Subfunction: Veterans' education, training, and rehabilitation. 

Composed primarily of the "G.I. Bill" readjustment, vocational 
rehabilitation benefits, and related programs. 

Subcode: 703; 
Subfunction: Hospital and medical care for veterans. 

Medical care and research financed by the Department of Veterans 
Affairs. 

Subcode: 704; 
Subfunction: Veterans' housing. 

Housing loan and guarantee programs for veterans and dependents. Pre-
1992 housing loans and guarantees are recorded on a cash basis, whereas 
under credit reform (post-1991), the budget records the credit subsidy 
cost of the activity. 

Subcode: 705; 
Subfunction: Other veterans benefits and services. 

Administrative expenses of the Department of Veterans Affairs. 

Code: 750; 
Function: Administration of Justice. 

Programs to provide judicial services, police protection, law 
enforcement (including civil rights), rehabilitation and incarceration 
of criminals, and the general maintenance of domestic order. Includes 
the provision of court-appointed counsel or other legal services for 
individuals. Excludes the cost of the legislative branch, the police or 
guard activities to protect federal property, and activities that are 
an integral part of a broader function (such as those for postal 
inspectors, tax collection agents, and Park Service rangers). The cost 
of National Guard personnel and military personnel who are called upon 
occasionally to maintain public safety and the cost of military police 
are included under the national defense function rather than this 
function. 

Subcode: 751; 
Subfunction: Federal law enforcement activities. 

The costs of operating the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Customs and 
Border Protection, Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the Drug 
Enforcement Administration, and police and crime prevention activities 
in other programs. Also includes the readily identifiable enforcement 
cost of civil rights activities. 

Subcode: 752; 
Subfunction: Federal litigative and judicial activities. 

The cost of the judiciary, the cost of prosecution, and federal 
expenses connected with financing legal defense activities. 

Subcode: 753; 
Subfunction: Federal correctional activities. 

Covers the costs of incarceration, supervision, parole, and 
rehabilitation of federal prisoners. 

Subcode: 754; 
Subfunction: Criminal justice assistance. 

Grants to state and local governments to assist them in operating and 
improving their law enforcement and justice systems. 

Code: 800; 
Function: General Government. 

General overhead cost of the federal government, including legislative 
and executive activities; provision of central fiscal, personnel, and 
property activities; and provision of services that cannot reasonably 
be classified in any other major function. As a rule, all activities 
reasonably or closely associated with other functions are included in 
those functions rather than being listed as part of general government. 
Also includes shared revenues and other general purpose fiscal 
assistance. 

Subcode: 801; 
Subfunction: Legislative functions. 

Includes most of the legislative branch. However, the Library of 
Congress (except the Congressional Research Service), the Tax Court, 
the Government Printing Office (except for congressional printing and 
binding), and the Copyright Royalty Tribunal are classified in other 
subfunctions. 

Subcode: 802; 
Subfunction: Executive direction and management. 

The Executive Office of the President (unless some major grants or 
operating programs should be included in the Office); occasionally some 
closely related spending outside the Office is included. 

Subcode: 803; 
Subfunction: Central fiscal operations. 

Covers the general tax collection and fiscal operations of the 
Department of the Treasury. 

Subcode: 804; 
Subfunction: General property and records management. 

Most of the operations of the General Services Administration (net of 
reimbursements from other agencies for services rendered). 

Subcode: 805; 
Subfunction: Central personnel management. 

Most of the operating costs of the Office of Personnel Management and 
related agencies (net of reimbursements from other agencies for 
services rendered). 

Subcode: 806; 
Subfunction: General purpose fiscal assistance. 

Federal aid to state, local, and territorial governments that is 
available for general fiscal support. The transactions of the now 
discontinued general revenue-sharing program are included in the 
historical data for this subfunction. Also includes grants for more 
restricted purposes when the stipulated purposes cross two or more 
major budgetary functions and the distribution among those functions is 
at the discretion of the recipient jurisdiction rather than the federal 
government. Includes payments in lieu of taxes, broad-purpose shared 
revenues, and the federal payment to the District of Columbia. Excludes 
payments specifically for community development or social services 
programs. 

Subcode: 808; 
Subfunction: Other general government. 

Miscellaneous other costs, such as federal costs of territorial 
governments. 

Subcode: 809; 
Subfunction: Deductions for offsetting receipts. 

Includes general government function offsetting receipts that are not 
closely related to any other subfunction in this function. 

Code: 900; 
Function: Net Interest. 

Transactions that directly give rise to interest payments or income 
(lending) and the general shortfall or excess of outgo over income 
arising out of fiscal, monetary, and other policy considerations and 
leading to the creation of interest-bearing debt instruments (normally 
the public debt). Includes interest paid on the public debt, on 
uninvested funds, and on tax refunds, offset by interest collections. 

Subcode: 901; 
Subfunction: Interest on the Treasury debt securities (gross). 

Outlays for interest on the public debt. (Where this interest is paid 
to the public, it is on an accrual basis; all other interest outlays in 
the budget are on a cash basis.) 

Subcode: 902; 
Subfunction: Interest received by on-budget trust funds. 

Interfund interest collected by on-budget nonrevolving trust funds. 
Most of this income derives from outlays included in subfunction 901, 
but this subfunction also includes offsetting receipts from investments 
in public debt securities issued by the Federal Financing Bank (FFB). 

Subcode: 903; 
Subfunction: Interest received by off-budget trust funds. 

Interfund interest collected by off-budget nonrevolving trust funds. 
Normally, all of this income comes from outlays included in subfunction 
901. 

Subcode: 908; 
Subfunction: Other interest. 

All other interest expenditures and offsetting receipts. The principal 
expenditure in this subfunction normally is interest on refunds of 
receipts. Since offsetting interest receipts are included in this 
subfunction, the subfunction totals are usually negative. 

Subcode: 909; 
Subfunction: Other investment income. 

The actual and estimated earnings on private securities of the Railroad 
Retirement Investment Trust. The actual year returns include interest, 
dividends, and capital gains and losses on private equities and other 
securities. The trust's end-of-year balance reflects the current market 
value of resources available to the government to finance benefits. 

Subcode: 920; 
Subfunction: Allowances. 

A category that may be included in a budget to ensure that the budget 
reflects the total estimated budget authority and outlay requirements 
for future years. 

In addition to the budget authority and outlays in each of the 
functional classifications, the President's budget normally includes 
some budget authority and outlays classified as allowances. 

Subcode: 921; 
Subfunction: Contingency for specific requirements.

Subcode: 922; 
Subfunction: Contingency for specific requirements.

Subcode: 923; 
Subfunction: Contingency for specific requirements.

Subcode: 924; 
Subfunction: Contingency for specific requirements.

Subcode: 925; 
Subfunction: Contingency for specific requirements.

Subcode: 926; 
Subfunction: Contingency for specific requirements.

Subcode: 927; 
Subfunction: Contingency for specific requirements.

Subcode: 928; 
Subfunction: Contingency for specific requirements.

Subcode: 929; 
Subfunction: Contingency for specific requirements.   

The specific line entries will vary from budget to budget, depending on 
what projections are required. 

Code: 950; 
Function: Undistributed Offsetting Receipts. 

Most offsetting receipts are included as deductions from outlays in the 
applicable functions and subfunctions. However, there are five major 
categories of offsetting receipts that are classified as undistributed 
offsetting receipts rather than being included as offsets in any of the 
other functions. 

Subcode: 951; 
Subfunction: Employer share, employee retirement (on-budget). 

Employing agency payments to funded retirement systems of federal 
employees are intragovernmental transactions (that is, they are 
payments by government accounts collected by other government accounts) 
and, hence, both the payment and collection are included in federal 
outlays. The payments are included in the various agency outlays, while 
the offsets are undistributed.[B]. 

Most federal employees are now covered by the Hospital Insurance 
portion of the Medicare program. The employing agency payments to the 
Hospital Insurance fund are also offset in this subfunction. 

Subcode: 952; 
Subfunction: Employer share, employee retirement (off-budget). 

Includes collections similar in nature to those in subfunction 951, 
except that the accounts collecting the money are off-budget. 

Subcode: 953; 
Subfunction: Rents and royalties on the outer continental shelf. 

Rents and royalties on the outer continental shelf constitute a large 
source of nontax income that is largely a windfall to the government. 
Since there are no major government programs that give rise to this 
income, it would be inappropriate to offset it against the outlays in 
any function. Thus, the collections are undistributed. 

Subcode: 954; 
Subfunction: Sale of major assets. 

On occasion, the government derives large returns from the sale of 
major assets, and the proceeds of the sales are recorded in this 
category rather than in any major function. 

Subcode: 959; 
Subfunction: Other undistributed offsetting receipts. 

This category includes items such as collections for the lease of 
federal lands for petroleum exploitation and a proposal for the Federal 
Communications Commission to conduct auctions. 

Multifunction Account. 

Subcode: 999; 
Subfunction: Multifunction account (used for accounts that involve two 
or more major functions). 
