1. Benefits and allowances to Armed Forces per-
sonnel.—Under the baseline tax system, all compensa-
tion, including dedicated payments and in-kind benefits,
should be included in taxable income because they rep-
resent accretions to wealth that do not materially differ
from cash wages. As an example, a rental voucher of $100
is (approximately) equal in value to $100 of cash income.
In contrast to this treatment, certain housing and meals,
in addition to other benefits provided military personnel,
either in cash or in kind, as well as certain amounts of
pay related to combat service, are excluded from income
subject to tax.

2. Income earned abroad.—Under the baseline tax
system, all compensation received by U.S. citizens is prop-
erly included in their taxable income. It makes no dif-
ference whether the compensation is a result of working
abroad or whether it is labeled as a housing allowance.
In contrast to this treatment, U.S. tax law allows U.S.
citizens who live abroad, work in the private sector, and
satisfy a foreign residency requirement to exclude up to
$80,000 in foreign earned income from U.S. taxes. In addi-
tion, if these taxpayers receive a specific allowance for for-
eign housing from their employers, then they may also ex-
clude the value of that allowance. If they do not receive a
specific allowance for housing expenses, they may exclude
from taxable income that portion of such expenses that
exceeds one-sixth the salary of a civil servant at grade
GS–14, step 1 ($84,697 in 2010).

3. Exclusion of certain allowances for Federal em-
ployees abroad.—In general, all compensation received
by U.S. citizens is properly included in their taxable in-
come. It makes no difference whether the compensation
is a result of working abroad or whether it is labeled as an
allowance for the high cost of living abroad. In contrast to
this treatment, U.S. Federal civilian employees and Peace
Corps members who work outside the continental United
States are allowed to exclude from U.S. taxable income
certain special allowances they receive to compensate
them for the relatively high costs associated with living
overseas. The allowances supplement wage income and
cover expenses such as rent, education, and the cost of
travel to and from the United States.

4. Sales source rule exceptions.—The United States
generally taxes the worldwide income of U.S. persons, with
taxpayers receiving a credit for foreign taxes paid, limited
to the pre-credit U.S. tax on the foreign source income.
In contrast, the sales source rules for inventory property
allow U.S. exporters to use more foreign tax credits by al-
lowing the exporters to attribute a larger portion of their
earnings abroad than would be the case if the allocation of
earnings was based on actual economic activity.

5. Income of U.S.-controlled foreign corpora-
tions.—The United States generally taxes the worldwide
income of U.S. persons and business entities. In contrast,
certain active income of foreign corporations controlled by
U.S. shareholders is not subject to U.S. taxation when it is
earned. The income becomes taxable only when the con-
trolling U.S. shareholders receive dividends or other dis-
tributions from their foreign stockholding. The reference
law tax baseline reflects this tax treatment where only
realized income is taxed. Under the normal tax method,
however, the currently attributable foreign source pre-tax
income from such a controlling interest is considered to be
subject to U.S. taxation, whether or not distributed. Thus,
the normal tax method considers the amount of controlled
foreign corporation income not yet distributed to a U.S.
shareholder as tax-deferred income.

6. Exceptions under subpart F for active financ-
ing income.—The United States generally taxes the
worldwide income of U.S. persons and business entities.
It would not allow the deferral of tax or other relief tar-
geted at particular industries or activities. In contrast,
under current law, financial firms may defer taxes on in-
come earned overseas in an active business.
General Science, Space, and Technology

7. Expensing R&E expenditures.—Research and
experimentation (R&E) projects can be viewed as invest-
ments because, if successful, their benefits accrue for sev-
eral years. It is often difficult, however, to identify wheth-
er a specific R&E project is successful and, if successful,
what its expected life will be. Because of this ambiguity,
the reference law baseline tax system would allow of ex-
pensing of R&E expenditures. In contrast, under the nor-
mal tax method, the expensing of R&E expenditures is
viewed as a tax expenditure. The baseline assumed for
the normal tax method is that all R&E expenditures are
successful and have an expected life of five years.

8. R&E credit.—The baseline tax system would uni-
formly tax all returns to investments and not allow cred-
its for particular activities, investments, or industries. In
contrast, the Tax Code allows an R&E credit of 20 per-
cent of qualified research expenditures in excess of a base
amount.The base amount is generally determined by multiply-
ing a “fixed-base percentage” by the average amount of
the company’s gross receipts for the prior four years. The
taxpayer’s fixed base percentage generally is the ratio of
its research expenses to gross receipts for 1984 through
1988. Taxpayers can elect the alternative simplified cred-
it regime, which is equal to 14 percent (12 percent prior
to 2009) of qualified research expenses that exceed 50
percent of the average qualified research expenses for the
three preceding taxable years. Prior to January 1, 2009,
taxpayers could also elect an alternative incremental
credit regime. Under the alternative incremental credit
regime the taxpayer was assigned a three-tiered fixed
base percentage that is lower than the fixed-base percent-
age that would otherwise apply, and the credit rate was
reduced. The rates for the alternative incremental credit
ranged from 3 percent to 5 percent. Under current law as
of September 30, the research credit expired on December
31, 2009.

9. Exploration and development costs.—Under the
baseline tax system, the costs of exploring and developing
oil and gas wells would be capitalized and then amortized
(or depreciated) over an estimate of the economic life of
the well. This insures that the net income from the well
is measured appropriately each year.
In contrast to this treatment, current law allows in-
tangible drilling costs for successful investments in do-
mestic oil and gas wells (such as wages, the cost of using
machinery for grading and drilling, and the cost of un-
salvageable materials used in constructing wells) to be
deducted immediately, i.e., expensed. Because it allows
recovery of costs sooner, expensing is more generous for
the taxpayer than would be amortization. Integrated oil
companies may deduct only 70 percent of such costs and
must amortize the remaining 30 percent over five years.
The same rule applies to the exploration and development
costs of surface stripping and the construction of shafts
and tunnels for other fuel minerals.

10. Percentage depletion.—The baseline tax system
would allow recovery of the costs of developing certain oil
and mineral properties using cost depletion. Cost deple-
tion is similar in concept to depreciation, in that the costs
of developing or acquiring the asset are capitalized and
then gradually reduced over an estimate of the asset’s
productive life, as is appropriate for measuring net in-
come.
In contrast, the Tax Code generally allows independent
fuel and mineral producers and royalty owners to take
percentage depletion deductions rather than cost deple-
tion on limited quantities of output. Under percentage
depletion, taxpayers deduct a percentage of gross income
from mineral production. In certain cases the deduction
is limited to a fraction of the asset’s net income. Over the
life of an investment, percentage depletion deductions can
exceed the cost of the investment. Consequently, percent-
age depletion offers more generous tax treatment than
would cost depletion, which would limit deductions to an
investment’s cost.

11. Alternative fuel production credit.—The base-
line tax system would not allow credits for particular ac-
tivities, investments, or industries. Instead, it generally
would seek to tax uniformly all returns from investment-
like activities. In contrast, the Tax Code provides a credit
of $3 per oil-equivalent barrel of production (in 2004 dol-
lars) for coke or coke gas during a four-year period for
qualified facilities. Under current law as of September 30,
these facilities must be placed in service before January
1, 2010.

12. Oil and gas exception to passive loss limita-
tion.—The baseline tax system accepts current law’s
general rule limiting taxpayers’ ability to deduct losses
from passive activities against nonpassive income (e.g.,
wages, interest, and dividends). Passive activities gener-
ally are defined as those in which the taxpayer does not
materially participate and there are numerous additional
considerations brought to bear on the determination of
which activities are passive for a given taxpayer. Losses
are limited in an attempt to limit tax sheltering activities.
Passive losses that are unused may be carried forward
and applied against future passive income.
In contrast to the general restrictions on passive loss-
es, the Tax Code exempts owners of working interests in
oil and gas properties from “passive income’’ limitations,
such that the working interest-holder who manages the
development of wells and incurs all operating costs on be-
half of himself and all other owners may aggregate nega-
tive taxable income (i.e., losses) from such interests with
his other income. Thus, these taxpayers are able to fully
deduct passive losses against nonpassive income, in con-
tradiction to the general prohibition against such deduc-
tions.

13. Capital gains treatment of royalties on coal.—
For individuals in 2010, tax rates on regular income vary
from 10 percent to 35 percent, depending on the taxpay-
er’s income. The baseline tax system generally would tax
all income under the regular tax rate schedule. It would
not allow preferentially low tax rates to apply to certain
types or sources of income. In contrast, current law al-
lows capital gains to be taxed at a preferentially low rate
that is no higher than 15 percent. Certain sales of coal
under royalty contracts qualify for taxation as capital
gains rather than ordinary income, and so benefit from
the preferentially low 15 percent maximum tax rate on
capital gains.

14. Energy facility bonds.—The baseline tax system
generally would tax all income under the regular tax rate
schedule. It would not allow preferentially low (or zero)
tax rates to apply to certain types or sources of income.
In contrast, the Tax Code allows interest earned on State
and local bonds used to finance construction of certain en-
ergy facilities to be exempt from tax. These bonds are gen-
erally subject to the State private-activity-bond annual
volume cap.

15. Energy production credit.—The baseline tax
system would not allow credits for particular activities,
investments, or industries. Instead, it generally would
seek to tax uniformly all returns from investment-like
activities. In contrast, the Tax Code provides a credit for
certain electricity produced from wind energy, biomass,
geothermal energy, solar energy, small irrigation power,
municipal solid waste, or qualified hydropower and sold to
an unrelated party. In addition to the electricity produc-
tion credit, an income tax credit is allowed for the produc-
tion of refined coal and Indian coal at qualified facilities.

16. Energy investment credit.—The baseline tax
system would not allow credits for particular activities,
investments, or industries. Instead, it generally would
seek to tax uniformly all returns from investment-like
activities. However, the Tax Code provides credits for in-
vestments in solar and geothermal energy property, quali-
fied fuel cell power plants, stationary microturbine power
plants, geothermal heat pumps, small wind property and
combined heat and power property. Owners of renewable
power facilities that qualify for the energy production
credit may instead elect to take an energy investment
credit.

17. Alcohol fuel credits.—The baseline tax system
would not allow credits for particular activities, invest-
ments, or industries. Instead, it generally would seek to
tax uniformly all returns from investment-like activities.
In contrast, the Tax Code provides an income tax credit
for ethanol derived from renewable sources and used as
fuel. In lieu of the alcohol mixture credit, the taxpayer
may claim a refundable excise tax credit. In addition,
small ethanol producers are eligible for a separate income
tax credit for ethanol production and a separate income
tax credit is available for qualified cellulosic biofuel pro-
duction.

18. Bio-Diesel tax credit.—The baseline tax system
would not allow credits for particular activities, invest-
ments, or industries. Instead, it generally would seek to
tax uniformly all returns from investment-like activities.
However, the Tax Code allows an income tax credit for bio-
diesel used or sold and for bio-diesel derived from virgin
sources. In lieu of the bio-diesel credit, the taxpayer may
claim a refundable excise tax credit. In addition, small
agri-biodiesel producers are eligible for a separate income
tax credit for ethanol production and a separate credit is
available for qualified renewable diesel fuel mixtures.

19. Credit for alternative motor vehicles and refu-
eling property.—The baseline tax system would not al-
low credits or deductions for particular activities, invest-
ments, or industries. Instead, it generally would seek to
tax uniformly all returns from investment-like activities.
In contrast, the Tax Code allows a number of credits for
certain types of vehicles and property. These are avail-
able for alternative motor vehicles (including fuel cell, ad-
vanced lean burn technology, hybrid, and alternative fuel
motor vehicles), alternative fuel vehicle refueling proper-
ty, and plug-ins (including plug-in electric vehicles, plug-
in electric drive motor vehicles, and plug-in conversion
kits). Under current law as of September 30, the credit
expired on December 31, 2010 for non-hydrogen refueling
stations.

20. Exclusion of utility conservation subsidies.—
The baseline tax system generally takes a comprehen-
sive view of taxable income that includes a wide variety
of (measurable) accretions to wealth. In certain circum-
stances, public utilities offer rate subsidies to non-busi-
ness customers who invest in energy conservation mea-
sures. These rate subsidies are equivalent to payments
from the utility to its customer, and so represent accre-
tions to wealth, income, that would be taxable to the cus-
tomer under the baseline tax system. In contrast, the Tax
Code exempts these subsidies from the non-business cus-
tomer’s gross income.

21. Credit to holders of clean renewable energy
bonds.—The baseline tax system would uniformly tax all
returns to investments and not allow credits for particu-
lar activities, investments, or industries. In contrast, the
Tax Code provides for the issuance of Clean Renewable
Energy Bonds which entitles the bond holder to a Federal
income tax credit in lieu of interest. The limit on the vol-
ume issued in 2009-2010 is $2.4 billion. As of May 2010,
issuers of such bonds may opt to receive direct payment
with the yield becoming fully taxable.

22. Deferral of gain from dispositions of transmis-
sion property to implement FERC restructuring pol-
icy.—The baseline tax system generally would tax gains
from sale when realized. However, the Tax Code allows
utilities to defer gains from the sale of their transmission
assets to a FERC-approved independent transmission
company.

23. Credit for investment in clean coal facilities.—
The baseline tax system would uniformly tax all returns
to investments and not allow credits for particular activi-
ties, investments, or industries. Instead, it generally would
seek to tax uniformly all returns from investment-like ac-
tivities. In contrast, the Tax Code provides investment tax
credits for clean coal facilities producing electricity and
for industrial gasification combined cycle projects.

24. Temporary 50 percent expensing for equipment
used in the refining of liquid fuels.—The baseline tax
system allows the taxpayer to deduct the decline in the
economic value of an investment over time. However, the
Tax Code provides for an accelerated recovery of the cost
of certain investments in refineries by allowing partial
expensing of the cost, thereby giving such investments a
tax advantage.

25. Natural gas distribution pipelines treated
as 15-year property.—The baseline tax system allows
taxpayers to deduct the decline in the economic value of
an investment over time. However, the Tax Code allows
depreciation of natural gas distribution pipelines (placed
in service between 2005 and 2011) over a 15 year period.
These deductions are accelerated relative to deductions
based on economic depreciation.

26. Amortize all geological and geophysical ex-
penditures over two years.—The baseline tax system
allows taxpayers to deduct the decline in the economic
value of an investment over time. However, the Tax Code
allows geological and geophysical expenditures incurred
in connection with oil and gas exploration in the United
States to be amortized over two years for non-integrated
oil companies.

27. Allowance of deduction for certain energy ef-
ficient commercial building property.—The baseline
tax system would not allow deductions in addition to nor-
mal depreciation allowances for particular investments in
particular industries. Instead, it generally would seek to
tax uniformly all returns from investment-like activities.
In contrast, the Tax Code allows a deduction, per square
foot, for certain energy efficient commercial buildings.

28. Credit for construction of new energy efficient
homes.—The baseline tax system would not allow cred-
its for particular activities, investments, or industries.
Instead, it generally would seek to tax uniformly all re-
turns from investment-like activities. However, the Tax
Code allows contractors a tax credit of $2,000 for the con-
struction of a qualified new energy-efficient home that has
an annual level of heating and cooling energy consump-
tion at least 50 percent below the annual consumption
of a comparable dwelling unit. The credit equals $1,000
in the case of a new manufactured home that meets a 30
percent standard.

29. Credit for energy efficiency improvements to
existing homes.—The baseline tax system would not
allow credits for particular activities, investments, or in-
dustries. However, the Tax Code provides an investment
tax credit for expenditures made on insulation, exterior
windows, and doors that improve the energy efficiency
of homes and meet certain standards. The Tax Code also
provides a credit for purchases of advanced main air cir-
culating fans, natural gas, propane, or oil furnaces or hot
water boilers, and other qualified energy efficient prop-
erty.

30. Credit for energy efficient appliances.—The
baseline tax system would not allow credits for particular
activities, investments, or industries. Instead, it gener-
ally would seek to tax uniformly all returns from invest-
ment-like activities. In contrast, the Tax Code provides
tax credits for the manufacture of efficient dishwashers,
clothes washers, and refrigerators. The size of the credit
depends on the efficiency of the appliance.

31. Credit for residential energy efficient proper-
ty.—The baseline tax system would uniformly tax all re-
turns to investments and not allow credits for particular
activities, investments, or industries. However, the Tax
Code provides a credit for the purchase of a qualified pho-
tovoltaic property and solar water heating property, as
well as for fuel cell power plants, geothermal heat pumps
and small wind property.

32. Credit for qualified energy conservation
bonds.—The baseline tax system would uniformly tax
all returns to investments and not allow credits for par-
ticular activities, investments, or industries. However, the
Tax Code provides for the issuance of energy conservation
bonds which entitle the bond holder to a Federal income
tax credit in lieu of interest. The limit on the volume is-
sued in 2009-2010 is $3.2 billion. As of May 2010, issuers
of such bonds may opt to receive direct payment with the
yield becoming fully taxable.

33. Advanced Energy Property Credit.—The base-
line tax system would not allow credits for particular
activities, investments, or industries. However, the Tax
Code provides a 30 percent investment credit for prop-
erty used in a qualified advanced energy manufacturing
project. The Treasury Department may award up to $2.3
billion in tax credits for qualified investments.

34. Exploration and development costs.—The base-
line tax system allows the taxpayer to deduct the depre-
ciation of an asset according to the decline in its economic
value over time. However, certain capital outlays associ-
ated with exploration and development of nonfuel miner-
als may be expensed rather than depreciated over the life
of the asset.

35. Percentage depletion.—The baseline tax system
allows the taxpayer to deduct the decline in the economic
value of an investment over time. Under current law, how-
ever, most nonfuel mineral extractors may use percentage
depletion (whereby the deduction is fixed as a percentage
of revenue and can exceed total costs) rather than cost de-
pletion, with percentage depletion rates ranging from 22
percent for sulfur to 5 percent for sand and gravel. Over
the life of an investment, percentage depletion deductions
can exceed the cost of the investment. Consequently, per-
centage depletion offers more generous tax treatment
than would cost depletion, which would limit deductions
to an investment’s cost.

36. Sewage, water, solid and hazardous waste fa-
cility bonds.—The baseline tax system generally would
tax all income under the regular tax rate schedule. It
would not allow preferentially low (or zero) tax rates to
apply to certain types or sources of income. In contrast,
the Tax Code allows interest earned on State and local
bonds used to finance construction of sewage, water, or
hazardous waste facilities to be exempt from tax. These
bonds are generally subject to the State private-activity-
bond annual volume cap.

37. Capital gains treatment of certain timber.—
The baseline tax system generally would tax all income
under the regular tax rate schedule. It would not allow
preferentially low tax rates to apply to certain types or
sources of income. However, under current law certain
timber sales can be treated as a capital gain rather than
ordinary income and therefore subject to the lower cap-
ital-gains tax rate. For individuals in 2010, tax rates on
regular income vary from 10 percent to 35 percent, de-
pending on the taxpayer’s income. In contrast, current
law allows capital gains to be taxed at a preferentially low
rate that is no higher than 15 percent.

38.Expensing multi-period timber growing 
costs.—The baseline tax system requires the taxpayer 
to capitalize costs associated with investment property. 
However, most of the production costs of growing timber 
may be expensed under current law rather than capital- 
ized and deducted when the timber is sold, thereby accel- 
erating cost recovery. 

39.Historic preservation.—The baseline tax system 
would not allow credits for particular activities, invest- 
ments, or industries. However, expenditures to preserve 
and restore certified historic structures qualify for an in- 
vestment tax credit of 20 percent under current law for 
certified rehabilitation activities. 

40. Exclusion of gain or loss on sale or exchange 
of certain brownfield sites.—In general, a tax-exempt 
organization must pay taxes on income from activities 
unrelated to its nonprofit status. The Tax Code, however, 
provides a special exclusion from unrelated business tax- 
able income of the gain or loss from the sale or exchange 
of certain qualifying brownfield properties. 

41. Industrial CO2 capture and sequestration tax 
credit.—The baseline tax system would uniformly tax all 
returns to investments and not allow credits for particu- 
lar activities, investments, or industries. In contrast, the 
Tax Code allows a credit of $20 per metric ton for quali- 
fied carbon dioxide captured at a qualified facility and 
disposed of in secure geological storage. In addition, the 
provision allows a credit of $10 per metric ton of qualified 
carbon dioxide that is captured at a qualified facility and 
as a tertiary injectant in a qualified enhanced oil or natu- 
ral gas recovery project. 

42. Deduction for endangered species recovery ex- 
penditures.—The baseline tax system generally would 
tax all income under the regular tax rate schedule. It 
would not allow preferentially low tax rates to apply to 
certain types or sources of income. In contrast, under 
current law farmers can deduct up to 25 percent of their 
gross income for expenses incurred as a result of site and 
habitat improvement activities that will benefit endan- 
gered species on their farm land, in accordance with site 
specific management actions included in species recovery 
plans approved pursuant to the Endangered Species Act 
of 1973. 

43. Expensing certain capital outlays.—The base-
line tax system requires the taxpayer to capitalize costs
associated with investment property. However, farmers
may expense certain expenditures for feed and fertilizer
as well as for soil and water conservation measures as
well as other capital improvements under current law.

44. Expensing multi-period livestock and crop
production costs.—The baseline tax system requires
the taxpayer to capitalize costs associated with an invest-
ment over time. However, the production of livestock and
crops with a production period greater than two years
(e.g., establishing orchards or constructing barns) is ex-
empt from the uniform cost capitalization rules, thereby
accelerating cost recovery.

45. Loans forgiven solvent farmers.—The baseline
tax system requires debtors to include the amount of loan
forgiveness as income or else reduce their recoverable
basis in the property related to the loan. If the amount
of forgiveness exceeds the basis, the excess forgiveness
is taxable. However, for bankrupt debtors, the amount of
loan forgiveness reduces carryover losses, unused credits,
and then basis, with the remainder of the forgiven debt
excluded from taxation.

46. Capital gains treatment of certain income.—
For individuals in 2010, tax rates on regular income vary
from 10 percent to 35 percent, depending on the taxpay-
er’s income. The baseline tax system generally would tax
all income under the regular tax rate schedule. It would
not allow preferentially low tax rates to apply to certain
types or sources of income. In contrast, current law al-
lows capital gains to be taxed at a preferentially low rate
that is no higher than 15 percent. Certain agricultural
income, such as unharvested crops, qualify for taxation as
capital gains rather than ordinary income, and so benefit
from the preferentially low 15 percent maximum tax rate
on capital gains.

47. Income averaging for farmers.—The baseline
tax system generally taxes all earned income each year at
the rate determined by the income tax. However, taxpay-
ers may average their taxable income from farming and
fishing over the previous three years.

48. Deferral of gain on sales of farm refiners.—
The baseline tax system generally subjects capital gains
to taxes the year that they are realized. However, the Tax
Code allows a taxpayer who sells stock in a farm refiner
to a farmers’ cooperative to defer recognition of the gain
if the proceeds are re-invested in a qualified replacement
property.

49. Expensing of reforestation expenditures.—The
baseline tax system requires the taxpayer to capitalize
costs associated with an investment over time. In con-
trast, the Tax Code provides for the expensing of the first
$10,000 in reforestation expenditures with 7-year amorti-
zation of the remaining expenses.

50. Credit union income exemption.—Under the
baseline tax system, corporations pay taxes on their prof-
its under the regular tax rate schedule. It would not allow
preferentially low (or zero) tax rates to apply to certain
types or sources of income. However, in the Tax Code the
earnings of credit unions not distributed to members as
interest or dividends are exempt from the income tax.
     
51. Deferral of income on life insurance and an-
nuity contracts.—Under the baseline tax system, indi-
viduals and corporations pay taxes on their income when
it is (actually or constructively) received or accrued, de-
pending on their method of accounting. Nevertheless,
the Tax Code provides favorable tax treatment for invest-
ment income earned within qualified life insurance and
annuity contracts. In general, investment income earned
on qualified life insurance contracts held until death is
permanently exempt from income tax. Investment income
distributed prior to the death of the insured is generally
tax-deferred. Investment income earned on annuities
benefits from tax deferral.

52. Small property and casualty insurance compa-
nies.—Under the baseline tax system, corporations pay
taxes on their profits under the regular tax rate schedule.
It would not allow preferentially low (or zero) tax rates to
apply to certain types or sources of income. Under current
law, however, stock non-life insurance companies are gen-
erally exempt from tax if their gross receipts for the tax-
able year do not exceed $600,000 and more than 50 per-
cent of such gross receipts consists of premiums. Mutual
non-life insurance companies are generally tax-exempt if
their annual gross receipts do not exceed $150,000 and
more than 35 percent of gross receipts consist of premi-
ums. Also, non-life insurance companies with no more
than $1.2 million of annual net premiums may elect to
pay tax only on their taxable investment income.

53. Insurance companies owned by exempt orga-
nizations.—Under the baseline tax system, corpora-
tions pay taxes on their profits under the regular tax rate
schedule. It would not allow preferentially low (or zero)
tax rates to apply to certain types or sources of income.
Generally the income generated by life and property and
casualty insurance companies is subject to tax, albeit by
special rules. Insurance operations conducted by such ex-
empt organizations as fraternal societies, voluntary em-
ployee benefit associations, and others, however, are ex-
empt from tax.

54. Small life insurance company deduction.—
Under the baseline tax system, corporations pay taxes on
their profits under the regular tax rate schedule. It would
not allow preferentially low (or zero) tax rates to apply to
certain types or sources of income. However, under cur-
rent law small life insurance companies (with gross as-
sets of less than $500 million) can deduct 60 percent of
the first $3 million of otherwise taxable income. The de-
duction phases out for otherwise taxable income between
$3 million and $15 million.

55. Exclusion of interest spread of financial insti-
tutions.—The baseline tax system generally would tax
all income under the regular tax rate schedule. It would
not allow preferentially low (or zero) tax rates to apply to
certain types or sources of income. Consumers and non-
profit organizations pay for some deposit-linked services,
such as check cashing, by accepting a below-market in-
terest rate on their demand deposits. If they received a
market rate of interest on those deposits and paid explicit
fees for the associated services, they would pay taxes on
the full market rate and (unlike businesses) could not de-
duct the fees. The Government thus foregoes tax on the
difference between the risk-free market interest rate and
below-market interest rates on demand deposits, which
under competitive conditions should equal the value add-
ed of deposit services.

56. Mortgage housing bonds.—The baseline tax sys-
tem generally would tax all income under the regular tax
rate schedule. It would not allow preferentially low (or
zero) tax rates to apply to certain types or sources of in-
come. In contrast, the Tax Code allows interest earned on
State and local bonds used to finance homes purchased by
first-time, low-to-moderate-income buyers to be exempt.
These bonds are generally subject to the State private-
activity-bond annual volume cap.

57. Rental housing bonds.—The baseline tax system
generally would tax all income under the regular tax rate
schedule. It would not allow preferentially low (or zero)
tax rates to apply to certain types or sources of income.
In contrast, the Tax Code allows interest earned on State
and local government bonds used to finance multifamily
rental housing projects to be tax-exempt.

58. Interest on owner-occupied homes.—Under the
baseline tax system, expenses incurred in earning income
would be deductible. However, such expenses would not
be deductible when the income or the return on an in-
vestment is not taxed. In contrast, the Tax Code allows
an exclusion from a taxpayer’s taxable income for the
value of owner-occupied housing services but allows the
owner-occupant to deduct mortgage interest paid on his
or her primary and secondary residences as an itemized
non-business deduction. In general, the mortgage interest
deduction is limited to interest on debt no greater than
the owner’s basis in the residence, and is also limited to
interest on debt of no more than $1 million. Interest on
up to $100,000 of other debt secured by a lien on a princi-
pal or second residence is also deductible, irrespective of
the purpose of borrowing, provided the total debt does not
exceed the fair market value of the residence. As an al-
ternative to the deduction, holders of qualified Mortgage
Credit Certificates issued by State or Local governmental
units or agencies may claim a tax credit of up to 20 per-
cent of the interest expense.

59. Taxes on owner-occupied homes.—Under the
baseline tax system, expenses incurred in earning income
would be deductible. However, such expenses would not
be deductible when the income or the return on an invest-
ment is not taxed. In contrast, the Tax Code allows an
exclusion from a taxpayer’s taxable income for the value
of owner-occupied housing services but allows the owner-
occupant to deduct property taxes paid on his or her pri-
mary and secondary residences.

60. Installment sales.—The baseline tax system gen-
erally would tax all income under the regular tax rate
schedule. It would not allow preferentially low (or zero)
tax rates, or deferral of tax, to apply to certain types or
sources of income. Dealers in real and personal property
(i.e., sellers who regularly hold property for sale or resale)
cannot defer taxable income from installment sales until
the receipt of the loan repayment. Nondealers (i.e., sellers
of real property used in their business) are required to
pay interest on deferred taxes attributable to their total
installment obligations in excess of $5 million. Only prop-
erties with sales prices exceeding $150,000 are includ-
able in the total. The payment of a market rate of interest
eliminates the benefit of the tax deferral. The tax exemp-
tion for nondealers with total installment obligations of
less than $5 million is, therefore, a tax expenditure.

61. Capital gains exclusion on home sales.—The
baseline tax system would not allow deductions and ex-
emptions to certain types of income. In contrast, under
current law, a homeowner can exclude from tax up to
$500,000 ($250,000 for singles) of the capital gains from
the sale of a principal residence. The exclusion may not be
used more than once every two years.

62. Imputed net rental income on owner-occupied
housing.—Under the baseline tax system, the taxable
income of a taxpayer who is an owner-occupant would in-
clude the implicit value of gross rental income on hous-
ing services earned on the investment in owner-occupied
housing and would allow a deduction for expenses, such as
interest, depreciation, property taxes, and other costs, as-
sociated with earning such rental income.  In contrast, the
Tax Code allows an exclusion from taxable income for the
implicit gross rental income on housing services, while in
certain circumstances allows a deduction for some costs
associated with such income, such as for mortgage inter-
est and property taxes.

63. Passive loss real estate exemption.—The base-
line tax system accepts current law’s general rule limiting
taxpayers’ ability to deduct losses from passive activities
against nonpassive income (e.g., wages, interest, and divi-
dends). Passive activities generally are defined as those
in which the taxpayer does not materially participate and
there are numerous additional considerations brought to
bear on the determination of which activities are passive
for a given taxpayer. Losses are limited in an attempt to
limit tax sheltering activities. Passive losses that are un-
used may be carried forward and applied against future
passive income.
In contrast to the general restrictions on passive losses,
the Tax Code exempts owners of rental real estate activi-
ties from “passive income’’ limitations. The exemption is
limited to $25,000 in losses and phases out for taxpayers
with income between $100,000 and $150,000.

64. Low-income housing credit.—The baseline tax
system would uniformly tax all returns to investments
and not allow credits for particular activities, investments,
or industries. However, under current law taxpayers who
invest in certain low-income housing are eligible for a tax
credit. The credit rate is set so that the present value of
the credit is equal to 70 percent for new construction and
30 percent for (1) housing receiving other Federal benefits
(such as tax-exempt bond financing), or (2) substantial-
ly rehabilitated existing housing. The credit can exceed
these levels in certain statutorily defined and State desig-
nated areas where project development costs are higher.
The credit is allowed in equal amounts over 10 years and
is generally subject to a volume cap.

65. Accelerated depreciation of residential rental
property.—Under an economic income tax, the costs of
acquiring a building are capitalized and depreciated over
time in accordance with the decline in the property’s eco-
nomic value due to wear and tear or obsolescence. This
insures that the net income from the rental property is
measured appropriately each year. However, the depreci-
ation provisions of the Tax Code are part of the reference
law rules, and thus do not give rise to tax expenditures
under reference law. Under normal law, however, depre-
ciation allowances reflect estimates of economic deprecia-
tion.

66. Discharge of mortgage indebtedness.—Under
the baseline tax system, all income would generally be
taxed under the regular tax rate schedule. The baseline
tax system would not allow preferentially low (or zero)
tax rates to apply to certain types or sources of income.
In contrast, the Tax Code allows an exclusion from a tax-
payer’s taxable income for any discharge of indebtedness
of up to $2 million from a qualified principal residence.
The provision sunsets on December 31, 2012.

67. Credit for homebuyer.—The baseline tax system
would not allow credits for particular activities, invest-
ments, or industries. Instead, it generally would seek to
tax uniformly all returns from investment-like activities.
In contrast, the Tax Code allows a tax credit for home
buyers on purchases before May 1, 2010.

68. Cancellation of indebtedness.—The baseline tax
system generally would tax all income under the regular
tax rate schedule. It would not allow preferentially low
(or zero) tax rates to apply to certain types or sources of
income. In contrast, under current law individuals are not
required to report the cancellation of certain indebtedness
as current income. If the canceled debt is not reported as
current income, however, the basis of the underlying prop-
erty must be reduced by the amount canceled.

69. Imputed interest rules.—Holders (issuers) of
debt instruments are generally required to report inter-
est earned (paid) in the period it accrues, not when paid.
In addition, the amount of interest accrued is determined
by the actual price paid, not by the stated principal and
interest stipulated in the instrument. In general, any
debt associated with the sale of property worth less than
$250,000 is excepted from the general interest account-
ing rules. This general $250,000 exception is not a tax ex-
penditure under reference law but is under normal law.
Exceptions above $250,000 are a tax expenditure under
reference law; these exceptions include the following: (1)
sales of personal residences worth more than $250,000,
and (2) sales of farms and small businesses worth be-
tween $250,000 and $1 million.

70. Treatment of qualified dividends.—For indi-
viduals in 2010, tax rates on regular income vary from
10 percent to 35 percent, depending on the taxpayer’s in-
come. The baseline tax system generally would tax all
income under the regular tax rate schedule. It would
not allow preferentially low tax rates to apply to certain
types or sources of income. In contrast, current law al-
lows qualified dividends to be taxed at a preferentially
low rate that is no higher than 15 percent.

71. Capital gains (other than agriculture, timber,
and coal).—For individuals in 2010, tax rates on regular
income vary from 10 percent to 35 percent, depending on
the taxpayer’s income. The baseline tax system generally
would tax all income under the regular tax rate schedule.
It would not allow preferentially low tax rates to apply to
certain types or sources of income. In contrast, current
law allows capital gains on assets held for more than one
year to be taxed at a preferentially low rate that is no
higher than 15 percent.

72. Capital gains exclusion for small business
stock.—The baseline tax system would not allow deduc-
tions and exemptions to certain types of income. In con-
trast, the Tax Code provides an exclusion of 50 percent
(from a 28 percent tax rate) for capital gains from qualified
small business stock held by individuals for more than 5
years; 75 percent for stock issued after February 17, 2009
and before September 28, 2010; and 100 percent for stock
issued after September 27, 2010 and before January 1,
2011. A qualified small business is a corporation whose
gross assets do not exceed $50 million as of the date of
issuance of the stock.

73. Step-up in basis of capital gains at death.—
Under the baseline tax system, unrealized capital gains
would be taxed when assets are transferred at death or
by gift.. In contrast, capital gains on assets held at the
owner’s death are not subject to capital gains tax under
current law. The cost basis of the appreciated assets is
adjusted to the market value at the owner’s date of death.

74. Carryover basis of capital gains on gifts.—
Under the baseline tax system, unrealized capital gains
would be taxed when assets are transferred at death or by
gift.. In contrast, when a gift of appreciated asset is made
under current law, the donor’s basis in the transferred
property (the cost that was incurred when the transferred
property was first acquired) carries over to the donee. The
carryover of the donor’s basis allows a continued deferral
of unrealized capital gains.

75. Ordinary income treatment of losses from sale
of small business corporate stock shares.—The base-
line tax system limits to $3,000 the write-off of losses
from capital assets, with carryover of the excess to future
years. In contrast, the Tax Code allows up to $100,000
in losses from the sale of small business corporate stock
(capitalization less than $1 million) to be treated as ordi-
nary losses and fully deducted.

76. Depreciation of non-rental-housing build-
ings.—Under an economic income tax, the costs of acquir-
ing a building are capitalized and depreciated over time
in accordance with the decline in the property’s economic
value due to wear and tear or obsolescence. This insures
that the net income from the property is measured appro-
priately each year. However, the depreciation provisions
of the Tax Code are part of the reference law rules, and
thus do not give rise to tax expenditures under reference
law. Under normal law, however, depreciation allowances
reflect estimates of economic depreciation.

77. Accelerated depreciation of machinery and
equipment.—Under an economic income tax, the costs of
acquiring machinery and equipment are capitalized and
depreciated over time in accordance with the decline in the
property’s economic value due to wear and tear or obsoles-
cence. This insures that the net income from the property
is measured appropriately each year. However, the depre-
ciation provisions of the Tax Code are part of the reference
law rules, and thus do not give rise to tax expenditures
under reference law. Under normal law, however, deprecia-
tion allowances reflect estimates of economic depreciation.

78. Expensing of certain small investments.—
Under the reference law baseline, the costs of acquiring
tangible property and computer software would be de-
preciated using the Tax Code’s depreciation provisions.
Under the normal tax baseline, depreciation allowances
are estimates of economic depreciation. However, the Tax
Code allows qualifying investments by small businesses
in tangible property and certain computer software to be
expensed rather than depreciated over time.

79. Graduated corporation income tax rate sched-
ule.—Because the corporate rate schedule is part of refer-
ence tax law, it is not considered a tax expenditure under
the reference method. A flat corporation income tax rate
is taken as the baseline under the normal tax method;
therefore the lower rate is considered a tax expenditure
under this concept.

80. Small issue industrial development bonds.—
The baseline tax system generally would tax all income
under the regular tax rate schedule. It would not allow
preferentially low (or zero) tax rates to apply to certain
types or sources of income. In contrast, the Tax Code al-
lows interest earned on small issue industrial develop-
ment bonds (IDBs) issued by State and local governments
to finance manufacturing facilities to be tax exempt.
Depreciable property financed with small issue IDBs
must be depreciated, however, using the straight-line
method. The annual volume of small issue IDBs is subject
to the unified volume cap discussed in the mortgage hous-
ing bond section above.

81. Deduction for U.S. production activities.—The
baseline tax system generally would tax all income under
the regular tax rate schedule. It would not allow prefer-
entially low (or zero) tax rates to apply to certain types or
sources of income. In contrast, the Tax Code allows for a
deduction equal to a portion of taxable income attribut-
able to domestic production.

82. Special rules for certain film and TV produc-
tion.—The baseline tax system generally would tax all
income under the regular tax rate schedule. It would
not allow preferentially low (or zero) tax rates to apply
to certain types or sources of income. In contrast, under
current law taxpayers may deduct up to $15 million per
production ($20 million in certain distressed areas) in
non-capital expenditures incurred during the year. Under
current law as of September 30, the provision expired on
December 31, 2009.

83. Deferral of tax on U.S. shipping companies.—
The baseline tax system generally would tax all profits
and income under the regular tax rate schedule. It would
not allow preferentially low (or zero) tax rates to apply to
certain types or sources of income. In contrast, the Tax
Code allows certain companies that operate U.S. flag ves-
sels to defer income taxes on that portion of their income
used for shipping purposes, primarily construction, mod-
ernization and major repairs to ships, and repayment of
loans to finance these investments.

84. Exclusion of employee parking expenses.—
Under the baseline tax system, all compensation, includ-
ing dedicated payments and in-kind benefits, would be
included in taxable income. Dedicated payments and in-
kind benefits represent accretions to wealth that do not
differ materially from cash wages. In contrast, the Tax
Code allows an exclusion from taxable income for employ-
ee parking expenses that are paid for by the employer or
that are received by the employee in lieu of wages. In
2010, the maximum amount of the parking exclusion is
$230 per month. The tax expenditure estimate does not
include any subsidy provided through employer-owned
parking facilities.

85. Exclusion of employee transit pass expenses.—
Under the baseline tax system, all compensation, includ-
ing dedicated payments and in-kind benefits, would be
included in taxable income. Dedicated payments and in-
kind benefits represent accretions to wealth that do not
differ materially from cash wages. In contrast, the Tax
Code allows an exclusion from a taxpayer’s taxable in-
come for passes, tokens, fare cards, and vanpool expenses
that are paid for by an employer or that are received by
the employee in lieu of wages to defray an employee’s com-
muting costs. The American Recovery and Reinvestment
Act of 2009 (“ARRA,” Pub. L. 111-5) included a provision
that equalized the maximum exclusion amount for these
expenses with the maximum exclusion amount for em-
ployee parking expenses. In 2010, the maximum amount
of the exclusion is $230 per month. Under current law as
of September 30, this provision of the ARRA expired on
December 31, 2010.

86. Tax credit for certain expenditures for main-
taining railroad tracks.—The baseline tax system
would not allow credits for particular activities, invest-
ments, or industries. However, under current law eligible
taxpayers may claim a credit equal to the lesser of 50
percent of maintenance expenditures and the product of
$3,500 and the number of miles of track owned or leased.
Under current law as of September 30, the credit expired
on December 31, 2009.

87. Exclusion of interest on bonds for financing
of highway projects and rail-truck transfer facili-
ties.—The baseline tax system generally would tax all
income under the regular tax rate schedule. It would
not allow preferentially low (or zero) tax rates to apply to
certain types or sources of income. In contrast, the Tax
Code provides for $15 billion of tax-exempt bond author-
ity to finance qualified highway or surface freight transfer
facilities. The authority to issue these bonds expires on
December 31, 2015.

88. Rehabilitation of structures.—The baseline
tax system would uniformly tax all returns to invest-
ments and not allow credits for particular activities, in-
vestments, or industries. However, the Tax Code allows a
10-percent investment tax credit for the rehabilitation of
buildings that are used for business or productive activi-
ties and that were erected before 1936 for other than resi-
dential purposes. The taxpayer’s recoverable basis must
be reduced by the amount of the credit.

89. Airport, dock, and similar facility bonds.—
The baseline tax system generally would tax all income
under the regular tax rate schedule. It would not allow
preferentially low (or zero) tax rates to apply to certain
types or sources of income. In contrast, the Tax Code al-
lows interest earned on State and local bonds issued to
finance high-speed rail facilities and Government-owned
airports, docks, wharves, and sport and convention facili-
ties to be tax-exempt. These bonds are not subject to a
volume cap.

90. Exemption of income of mutuals and coopera-
tives.—Under the baseline tax system, corporations pay
taxes on their profits under the regular tax rate schedule.
In contrast, the Tax Code provides for the incomes of mu-
tual and cooperative telephone and electric companies to
be exempt from tax if at least 85 percent of their revenues
are derived from patron service charges.

91. Empowerment zones and renewal communi-
ties.—The baseline tax system generally would tax all
income under the regular tax rate schedule. It would
not allow preferentially low (or zero) tax rates to apply to
certain types or sources of income, tax credits, and write-
offs faster than economic depreciation. In contrast, under
current law qualifying businesses in designated economi-
cally depressed areas can receive tax benefits such as an
employer wage credit, increased expensing of investment
in equipment, special tax-exempt financing, accelerated
depreciation, and certain capital gains incentives.

92. New markets tax credit.—The baseline tax sys-
tem would not allow credits for particular activities, in-
vestments, or industries. However, under current law
taxpayers who make qualified equity investments in a
community development entity (CDE), which then makes
qualified investments in low-income communities, are eli-
gible for a tax credit received over 7 years. The total eq-
uity investment available for the credit across all CDEs is
$5 billion in 2009. Under current law as of September 30,
the credit expired on December 31, 2009.

93. Expensing of environmental remediation
costs.—Under the baseline tax system, the costs would
be amortized (or depreciated) over an estimate of the eco-
nomic life of the building. This insures that the net in-
come from the buildings is measured appropriately each
year. However, the Tax Code allows taxpayers who clean
up certain hazardous substances at a qualified site to ex-
pense the clean-up costs, even though the expenses will
generally increase the value of the property significantly
or appreciably prolong the life of the property.

94. Credit to holders of Gulf and Midwest Tax
Credit Bonds.—The baseline tax system would not al-
low credits for particular activities, investments, or indus-
tries. Instead, under current law taxpayers that own Gulf
and Midwest Tax Credit bonds receive a non-refundable
tax credit rather than interest. The credit is included in
gross income.

95. Recovery Zone Bonds.—The baseline tax system
would not allow credits for particular activities, invest-
ments, or industries. In addition, it would tax all income
under the regular tax rate schedule. It would not allow
preferentially low (or zero) tax rates to apply to certain
types or sources of income. In contrast, the Tax Code al-
lows local governments to issue up $10 billion in taxable
Recovery Zone Economic Development Bonds in 2009 and
2010 and receive a direct payment from Treasury equal to
45 percent of interest expenses. In addition, they would
be allowed to allocate up to $15 billion in tax exempt
Recovery Zone Facility Bonds. These bonds finance cer-
tain kinds of business development in areas of economic
distress.

96. Tribal Economic Development Bonds.—The
baseline tax system generally would tax all income under
the regular tax rate schedule. It would not allow prefer-
entially low (or zero) tax rates to apply to certain types or
sources of income. In contrast, the Tax Code was modified
in 2009 to allow Indian tribal governments to issue tax
exempt “tribal economic development bonds.” There is a
national bond limitation of $2 billion.

97. Scholarship and fellowship income.—
Scholarships and fellowships are excluded from taxable
income to the extent they pay for tuition and course-relat-
ed expenses of the grantee. Similarly, tuition reductions
for employees of educational institutions and their fami-
lies are not included in taxable income. From an economic
point of view, scholarships and fellowships are either gifts
not conditioned on the performance of services, or they
are rebates of educational costs. Thus, under the baseline
tax system of the reference law method, this exclusion is
not a tax expenditure because this method does not in-
clude either gifts or price reductions in a taxpayer’s gross
income. The exclusion, however, is considered a tax ex-
penditure under the normal tax method, which includes
gift-like transfers of Government funds in gross income
(many scholarships are derived directly or indirectly from
Government funding).

98. HOPE tax credit.—The baseline tax system would
not allow credits for particular activities, investments, or
industries. Under current law, however, the non-refund-
able HOPE tax credit allows a credit for 100 percent of an
eligible student’s first $1,200 of tuition and fees and 50
percent of the next $1,200 of tuition and fees. The credit
only covers tuition and fees paid during the first two years
of a student’s post-secondary education. In 2010, the cred-
it is phased out ratably for taxpayers with modified AGI
between $100,000 and $120,000 ($50,000 and $60,000 for
singles), indexed.

99. Lifetime Learning tax credit.—The baseline tax
system would not allow credits for particular activities,
investments, or industries. Under current law, however,
the non-refundable Lifetime Learning tax credit allows
a credit for 20 percent of an eligible student’s tuition and
fees, up to a maximum credit per return of $2,000. The
credit is phased out ratably for taxpayers with modi-
fied AGI between $100,000 and $120,000 ($50,000 and
$60,000 for singles), indexed. The credit applies to both
undergraduate and graduate students.

100. American Opportunity Tax Credit.—The base-
line tax system would not allow credits for particular ac-
tivities, investments, or industries. In contrast, the Tax
Code was modified in 2009 to provide a tax credit in 2009
and 2010 of up to $2,500 per eligible student for quali-
fied tuition and related expenses paid for each of the first
four years of the student’s post-secondary education. The
credit is phased out for taxpayers with modified adjusted
gross income between $80,000 and $90,000 ($160,000 and
$180,000 for married taxpayers filing a joint return).
101. Education Individual Retirement Accounts
(IRA).—The baseline tax system generally would tax
all income under the regular tax rate schedule. It would
not allow preferentially low (or zero) tax rates to apply
to certain types or sources of income. Contributions to an
education IRA are not tax-deductible. However, invest-
ment income earned by education IRAs is not taxed when
earned, and investment income from an education IRA is
tax-exempt when withdrawn to pay for a student’s educa-
tion expenses. The maximum contribution to an educa-
tion IRA in 2010 is $2,000 per beneficiary. The maximum
contribution is phased down ratably for taxpayers with
modified AGI between $190,000 and $220,000 ($95,000
and $110,000 for singles).

102. Student-loan interest.—The baseline tax system
accepts current law’s general rule limiting taxpayers’ abil-
ity to deduct non-business interest expenses. In contrast,
taxpayers may claim an above-the-line deduction of up to
$2,500 on interest paid on an education loan. Interest may
only be deducted for the first five years in which interest
payments are required. In 2010, the maximum deduction
is phased down ratably for taxpayers with modified AGI
between $120,000 and $150,000 ($60,000 and $75,000 for
singles), indexed.

103. Deduction for higher education expenses.—
The baseline tax system would not allow a deduction for
personal expenditures. In contrast, the Tax Code provides
a maximum annual deduction of $4,000 in 2010 for quali-
fied higher education expenses for taxpayers with adjust-
ed gross income up to $130,000 on a joint return ($65,000
for singles). Taxpayers with adjusted gross income up to
$160,000 on a joint return ($80,000 for singles) may de-
duct up to $2,000.

104. State prepaid tuition plans.—The baseline tax
system generally would tax all income under the regular
tax rate schedule. It would not allow preferentially low
(or zero) tax rates to apply to certain types or sources of
income. Some States have adopted prepaid tuition plans
and prepaid room and board plans, which allow persons
to pay in advance for college expenses for designated ben-
eficiaries. Under current law, investment income, or the
return on prepayments, is not taxed when earned, and is
tax-exempt when withdrawn to pay for qualified expenses.
105. Student-loan bonds.—The baseline tax system
generally would tax all income under the regular tax rate
schedule. It would not allow preferentially low (or zero)
tax rates to apply to certain types or sources of income. In
contrast, interest earned on State and local bonds issued
to finance student loans is tax-exempt under current law.
The volume of all such private activity bonds that each
State may issue annually is limited.

106. Bonds for private nonprofit educational in-
stitutions.—The baseline tax system generally would tax
all income under the regular tax rate schedule. It would
not allow preferentially low (or zero) tax rates to apply to
certain types or sources of income. In contrast, under cur-
rent law interest earned on State and local Government
bonds issued to finance the construction of facilities used
by private nonprofit educational institutions is not taxed.

107. Credit for holders of zone academy bonds.—
The baseline tax system would not allow credits for partic-
ular activities, investments, or industries. Under current
law, however, financial institutions that own zone acade-
my bonds receive a non-refundable tax credit rather than
interest. The credit is included in gross income. Proceeds
from zone academy bonds may only be used to renovate,
but not construct, qualifying schools and for certain other
school purposes. Under current law as of September 30,
the total amount of zone academy bonds that may be is-
sued is limited to $1.4 billion in 2009 and 2010.

108. U.S. savings bonds for education.—The base-
line tax system generally would tax all income under the
regular tax rate schedule. It would not allow preferen-
tially low (or zero) tax rates to apply to certain types or
sources of income. Under current law, however, interest
earned on U.S. savings bonds issued after December 31,
1989 is tax-exempt if the bonds are transferred to an edu-
cational institution to pay for educational expenses. The
tax exemption is phased out for taxpayers with AGI be-
tween $105,100 and $135,100 ($70,100 and $85,100 for
singles) in 2010.

109. Dependent students age 19 or older.—Under
the baseline tax system, a personal exemption for the
taxpayer is allowed. However, additional exemptions for
targeted groups within a given filing status would not be
allowed. In contrast, the Tax Code allows taxpayers to
claim personal exemptions for dependent children who
are over the age of 18 or under the age of 24 and who
(1) reside with the taxpayer for over half the year (with
exceptions for temporary absences from home, such as for
school attendance), (2) are full-time students, and (3) do
not claim a personal exemption on their own tax returns.

110. Charitable contributions to educational in-
stitutions.—The baseline tax system would not allow a
deduction for personal expenditures. In contrast, the Tax
Code provides taxpayers a deduction for contributions to
nonprofit educational institutions. Moreover, taxpayers
who donate capital assets to educational institutions can
deduct the asset’s current value without being taxed on
any appreciation in value. An individual’s total charitable
contribution generally may not exceed 50 percent of ad-
justed gross income; a corporation’s total charitable con-
tributions generally may not exceed 10 percent of pre-tax
income.

111. Employer-provided educational assistance.—
Under the baseline tax system, all compensation, includ-
ing dedicated payments and in-kind benefits, should be
included in taxable income because they represent ac-
cretions to wealth that do not materially differ from cash
wages. Under current law, however, employer-provided
educational assistance is excluded from an employee’s
gross income even though the employer’s costs for this as-
sistance are a deductible business expense.

112. Special deduction for teacher expenses.—The
baseline tax system would not allow a deduction for per-
sonal expenditures. In contrast, under current law educa-
tors in both public and private elementary and secondary
schools, who work at least 900 hours during a school year
as a teacher, instructor, counselor, principal or aide, may
subtract up to $250 of qualified expenses when figuring
their adjusted gross income (AGI). This provision expired
on December 31, 2009.

113. Discharge of student loan indebtedness.—
Under the baseline tax system, all compensation, includ-
ing dedicated payments and in-kind benefits, should be
included in taxable income. In contrast, the Tax Code al-
lows certain professionals who perform in underserved
areas or specific fields, and as a consequence have their
student loans discharged, not to recognize such discharge
as income.

114. Qualified school construction bonds.—The
baseline tax system would not allow credits for particular
activities, investments, or industries. Instead, it generally
would seek to tax uniformly all returns from investment-
like activities. In contrast, the Tax Code was modified in
2009 to provide a tax credit in lieu of interest to holders of
qualified school construction bonds. The national volume
limit is $22 billion over 2009 and 2010. As of May 2010,
issuers of such bonds may opt to receive direct payment
with the yield becoming fully taxable.

115. Work opportunity tax credit (WOTC).—The
baseline tax system would not allow credits for particular
activities, investments, or industries. Instead, it gener-
ally would seek to tax uniformly all returns from invest-
ment-like activities. In contrast, the Tax Code provides
employers with a tax credit for qualified wages paid to
individuals. The credit applies to employees who begin
work on or before August 31, 2011 and who are certified
as members of various targeted groups. The amount of
the credit that can be claimed is 25 percent of qualified
wages for employment less than 400 hours and 40 per-
cent for employment of 400 hours or more. Generally, the
maximum credit per employee is $2,400 and can only be
claimed on the first year of wages an individual earns
from an employer. However, the credit for long-term wel-
fare recipients can be claimed on second year wages as
well and has a $9,000 maximum. Employees must work
at least 120 hours to be eligible for the credit. Employers
must reduce their deduction for wages paid by the amount
of the credit claimed.

116. Welfare-to-work tax credit.—The baseline tax
system would not allow credits for particular activities,
investments, or industries. Instead, it generally would
seek to tax uniformly all returns from investment-like ac-
tivities. In contrast, under current law an employer is eli-
gible for a tax credit on the first $20,000 of eligible wages
paid to qualified long-term family assistance recipients
during the first two years of employment. The welfare-
to-work credit expired on December 31, 2006. After this
date, long-term welfare recipients became a WOTC target
group.

117. Employer-provided child care exclusion.—
Under the baseline tax system, all compensation, includ-
ing dedicated payments and in-kind benefits, should be
included in taxable income. In contrast, under current
law up to $5,000 of employer-provided child care is ex-
cluded from an employee’s gross income even though the
employer’s costs for the child care are a deductible busi-
ness expense.

118. Employer-provided child care credit.—The
baseline tax system would not allow credits for particu-
lar activities, investments, or industries. Instead, current
law provides a credit equal to 25 percent of qualified ex-
penses for employee child care and 10 percent of quali-
fied expenses for child care resource and referral services.
Employer deductions for such expenses are reduced by
the amount of the credit. The maximum total credit is
limited to $150,000 per taxable year.

119. Assistance for adopted foster children.—
Under the baseline tax system, all compensation, includ-
ing dedicated payments and in-kind benefits, should be
included in taxable income. Taxpayers who adopt eligible
children from the public foster care system can receive
monthly payments for the children’s significant and var-
ied needs and a reimbursement of up to $2,000 for nonre-
curring adoption expenses. These payments are excluded
from gross income under current law.

120. Adoption credit and exclusion.—The base-
line tax system would not allow credits for particular ac-
tivities. Instead, taxpayers can receive a refundable tax
credit for qualified adoption expenses under current law.
The maximum credit is $13,170 per child for 2010, and
is phased-out ratably for taxpayers with modified AGI
between $182,520 and $222,520. The credit amounts
and the phase-out thresholds are indexed for inflation.
Taxpayers may also exclude qualified adoption expenses
from income, subject to the same maximum amounts and
phase-out as the credit. The same expenses cannot qualify
for tax benefits under both programs; however, a taxpayer
may use the benefits of the exclusion and the tax credit
for different expenses.

121. Employer-provided meals and lodging.—
Under the baseline tax system, all compensation, includ-
ing dedicated payments and in-kind benefits, should be
included in taxable income. In contrast, under current law
employer-provided meals and lodging are excluded from
an employee’s gross income even though the employer’s
costs for these items are a deductible business expense.

122. Child credit.—The baseline tax system would not
allow credits for particular activities or targeted at spe-
cific groups. Under current law, however, taxpayers with
children under age 17 can qualify for a $1,000 partially
refundable per child credit. The maximum credit declines
to $500 in 2011 and later years. The credit is phased out
for taxpayers at the rate of $50 per $1,000 of modified AGI
above $110,000 ($75,000 for singles).

123. Child and dependent care expenses.—The
baseline tax system would not allow credits for particular
activities or targeted at specific groups. In contrast, the
Tax Code provides married couples with child and depen-
dent care expenses a tax credit when one spouse works
full time and the other works at least part time or goes to
school. The credit may also be claimed by single parents
and by divorced or separated parents who have custody of
children. In 2010, expenditures up to a maximum $3,000
for one dependent and $6,000 for two or more dependents
are eligible for the credit. The credit is equal to 35 percent
of qualified expenditures for taxpayers with incomes of
$15,000. The credit is reduced to a minimum of 20 per-
cent by one percentage point for each $2,000 of income in
excess of $15,000.

124. Disabled access expenditure credit.—The
baseline tax system would not allow credits for particu-
lar activities, investments, or industries. In contrast, the
Tax Code provides small businesses (less than $1 million
in gross receipts or fewer than 31 full-time employees)
a 50-percent credit for expenditures in excess of $250 to
remove access barriers for disabled persons. The credit is
limited to $5,000.

125. Charitable contributions, other than educa-
tion and health.—The baseline tax system would not
allow a deduction for personal expenditures. In contrast,
the Tax Code provides taxpayers a deduction for contribu-
tions to charitable, religious, and certain other nonprofit
organizations. Taxpayers who donate capital assets to
charitable organizations can deduct the assets’ current
value without being taxed on any appreciation in value.
An individual’s total charitable contribution generally
may not exceed 50 percent of adjusted gross income; a
corporation’s total charitable contributions generally may
not exceed 10 percent of pre-tax income.

126. Foster care payments.—The baseline tax system
generally would tax all income under the regular tax rate
schedule. It would not allow preferentially low (or zero)
tax rates to apply to certain types or sources of income.
Foster parents provide a home and care for children who
are wards of the State, under contract with the State.
However, compensation received for this service is exclud-
ed from the gross incomes of foster parents; the expenses
they incur are nondeductible.

127. Parsonage allowances.—Under the baseline tax
system, all compensation, including dedicated payments
and in-kind benefits, would be included in taxable income.
Dedicated payments and in-kind benefits represent ac-
cretions to wealth that do not differ materially from cash
wages. In contrast, the Tax Code allows an exclusion from
a clergyman’s taxable income for the value of the clergy-
man’s housing allowance or the rental value of the clergy-
man’s parsonage.

128. Provide an employee retention credit to em-
ployers affected by hurricanes Katrina, Rita, Wilma,
and Ike.—The baseline tax system would not allow cred-
its for particular activities, investments, or industries. In
contrast, the Tax Code provides tax credits against the
wages paid to eligible employees in areas affected by nat-
ural disasters such as hurricanes Katrina, Rita, Wilma,
and Ike.

129. Exclusion for benefits provided to volunteer
EMS and firefighters.—Under the baseline tax sys-
tem, all compensation, including dedicated payments and
in-kind benefits, would be included in taxable income.
Dedicated payments and in-kind benefits represent ac-
cretions to wealth that do not differ materially from cash
wages. In contrast, the Tax Code allows an exclusion from
taxable income of certain rebates or reductions of state
and local income and property taxes provided by states or
localities if the taxpayer is a member of a volunteer emer-
gency response organization. The Tax Code also allows an
exclusion from taxable income of certain payments such
as reimbursements for expenses or equipment allowances
of up to $360 per year provided by states or localities on
account of performance of services as a member of a vol-
unteer emergency response organization.

130. Making work pay tax credit.—The baseline tax
system would not allow credits for particular activities. In
contrast, the Tax Code was modified in 2009 to provide for
a tax credit in 2009 and 2010 of the lesser of 6.2 percent
of an individual’s earned income or $400 ($800 for joint
filers). It is phased out at a rate of 2 percent of modified
AGI above $75,000 ($150,000 for joint filers).

131. Employer-paid medical insurance and ex-
penses.—Under the baseline tax system, all compensa-
tion, including dedicated payments and in-kind benefits,
should be included in taxable income. In contrast, under
current law, employer-paid health insurance premiums
and other medical expenses (including long-term care)
are deducted as a business expense by employers, but
they are not included in employee gross income.

132. Self-employed medical insurance premi-
ums.—Under the baseline tax system, all compensation
and remuneration, including dedicated payments and
in-kind benefits, should be included in taxable income.
In contrast, under current law self-employed taxpayers
may deduct their family health insurance premiums.
Taxpayers without self-employment income are not eligi-
ble for this special deduction. The deduction is not avail-
able for any month in which the self-employed individual
is eligible to participate in an employer-subsidized health
plan and the deduction may not exceed the self-employed
individual’s earned income from self-employment.

133. Medical and health savings accounts.—Under
the baseline tax system, all compensation, including dedi-
cated payments and in-kind benefits, should be included
in taxable income. Also, the baseline tax system would
not allow a deduction for personal expenditures. In con-
trast, individual contributions to Archer Medical Savings
Accounts (Archer MSAs) and Health Savings Accounts
(HSAs) are allowed as a deduction in determining adjust-
ed gross income whether or not the individual itemizes
deductions. Employer contributions to Archer MSAs and
HSAs are excluded from income and employment taxes.
Archer MSAs and HSAs require that the individual have
coverage by a qualifying high deductible health plan.
Earnings from the accounts are excluded from taxable in-
come. Distributions from the accounts used for medical
expenses are not taxable. The rules for HSAs are general-
ly more flexible than for Archer MSAs and the deductible
contribution amounts are greater (in 2010, $3050 for tax-
payers with individual coverage and $6,150 for taxpayers
with family coverage). Thus, HSAs have largely replaced
MSAs.

134. Medical care expenses.—The baseline tax sys-
tem would not allow a deduction for personal expendi-
tures. In contrast, under current law personal expendi-
tures for medical care (including the costs of prescription
drugs) exceeding 7.5 percent of the taxpayer’s adjusted
gross income are deductible. For tax years beginning af-
ter 2012, only medical expenditures exceeding 10 percent
of the taxpayer’s adjusted gross income are deductible.
However, for the years 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016, if ei-
ther the taxpayer or the taxpayer’s spouse turns 65 before
the end of the taxable year, the threshold remains at 7.5
percent of adjusted income.

135. Hospital construction bonds.—The baseline
tax system generally would tax all income under the reg-
ular tax rate schedule. It would not allow preferentially
low (or zero) tax rates to apply to certain types or sources
of income. In contrast, under current law interest earned
on State and local government debt issued to finance hos-
pital construction is excluded from income subject to tax.

136. Refundable Premium Assistance Tax
Credit.—The baseline tax system would not allow cred-
its for particular activities or targeted at specific groups.
In contrast, for taxable years ending after 2013, the Tax
Code provides a premium assistance credit to any eligible
taxpayer for any qualified health insurance purchased
through a Health Insurance Exchange. In general, an
eligible taxpayer is a taxpayer with annual household
income between 100% and 400% of the federal poverty
level for a family of the taxpayer’s size and that does not
have access to affordable minimum essential health care
coverage. The amount of the credit equals the lesser of (i)
the actual premiums paid by the taxpayer for such cover-
age or (ii) the difference between the cost of a statutorily-
identified benchmark plan offered on the exchange and
a required payment by the taxpayer that increases with
income.

137. Credit for employee health insurance expens-
es of small business.—The baseline tax system would
not allow credits for particular activities or targeted at
specific groups. In contrast, the Tax Code provides a tax
credit to qualified small employers that make a certain
level of non-elective contributions towards the purchase
of certain health insurance coverage for its employees. To
receive a credit, an employer must have fewer than 25 full-
time-equivalent employees whose average annual full-
time-equivalent wages from the employer are less than
$50,000 (indexed for taxable years after 2013). However,
to receive a full credit, an employer must have no more
than 10 full-time employees, and the average wage paid to
these employees must be no more than $25,000 (indexed
for taxable years after 2013). A qualifying employer may
claim the credit for any taxable year beginning in 2010,
2011, 2012, and 2013 and for up to two years for insurance
purchased through a Health Insurance Exchange thereaf-
ter. For taxable beginning in 2010, 2011, 2012, and 2013,
the maximum credit is 35 percent of premiums paid by
qualified taxable employers and 25 percent of premiums
paid by qualified tax-exempt organizations. For taxable
years beginning in 2014 and later years, the maximum
tax credit will increase to 50 percent of premiums paid by
qualified taxable employers and 35 percent of premiums
paid by qualified tax-exempt organizations.

138. Charitable contributions to health institu-
tions.—The baseline tax system would not allow a deduc-
tion for personal expenditures. In contrast, the Tax Code
provides individuals and corporations a deduction for con-
tributions to nonprofit health institutions. Tax expendi-
tures resulting from the deductibility of contributions to
other charitable institutions are listed under the educa-
tion, training, employment, and social services function.

139. Orphan drugs.—The baseline tax system would
not allow credits for particular activities, investments, or
industries. In contrast, under current law drug firms can
claim a tax credit of 50 percent of the costs for clinical
testing required by the Food and Drug Administration for
drugs that treat rare physical conditions or rare diseases.

140. Blue Cross and Blue Shield.—The baseline tax
system generally would tax all profits under the regular
tax rate schedule. It would not allow preferentially low
tax rates to apply to certain types or sources of income.
In contrast, Blue Cross and Blue Shield health insurance
providers in existence on August 16, 1986 and certain
other nonprofit health insurers are provided exceptions
from otherwise applicable insurance company income tax
accounting rules that substantially reduce their tax li-
abilities, provided that their percentage of total premium
revenue expended on reimbursement for clinical services
provided to enrollees is not less than 85 percent for the
taxable year.

141. Tax credit for health insurance purchased
by certain displaced and retired individuals.—The
baseline tax system would not allow credits for particu-
lar activities, investments, or industries. In contrast, the
Trade Act of 2002 provides a refundable tax credit of 65
percent for the purchase of health insurance coverage by
individuals eligible for Trade Adjustment Assistance and
certain Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation pension
recipients. The American Recovery and Reinvestment
Act increased the credit to 80 percent in coverage months
preceding January 1, 2011.

142. Distributions for premiums for health and
long-term care insurance.—Under the baseline tax
system, all compensation, including dedicated and de-
ferred payments, should be included in taxable income.
In contrast, the Tax Code provides for tax-free distribu-
tions of up to $3,000 from governmental retirement plans
for premiums for health and long term care premiums of
public safety officers.

143. Railroad retirement benefits.—Under the base-
line tax system, all compensation, including dedicated and
deferred payments, should be included in taxable income.
In contrast, railroad retirement benefits are not gener-
ally subject to the income tax unless the recipient’s gross
income reaches a certain threshold under current law.
The threshold is discussed more fully under the Social
Security function.

144. Workers’ compensation benefits.—Under the
baseline tax system, all compensation, including dedi-
cated payments and in-kind benefits, should be included
in taxable income. However, workers compensation, al-
though income to the recipients, are not subject to the in-
come tax under current law.

145. Public assistance benefits.—Under the ref-
erence law baseline tax system, gifts and transfers are
not treated as income to the recipients. In contrast, the
normal tax method considers cash transfers from the
Government as part of the recipients’ income, and thus,
treats the exclusion for public assistance benefits under
current law as tax expenditure.

146. Special benefits for disabled coal miners.—
Under the baseline tax system, all compensation, includ-
ing dedicated payments and in-kind benefits, should be
included in taxable income. However, disability payments
to former coal miners out of the Black Lung Trust Fund,
although income to the recipient, are not subject to the
income tax.

147. Military disability pensions.—Under the base-
line tax system, all compensation, including dedicated
payments and in-kind benefits, should be included in
taxable income. In contrast, most of the military pension
income received by current disabled retired veterans is
excluded from their income subject to tax.

148. Employer-provided pension contributions
and earnings.—Under the baseline tax system, all com-
pensation, including deferred and dedicated payments,
should be included in taxable income. In contrast, under
current law certain employer contributions to pension
plans are excluded from an employee’s gross income even
though the employer can deduct the contributions. In ad-
dition, the tax on the investment income earned by pen-
sion plans is deferred until the money is withdrawn.

149. 401(k) plans.—Under the baseline tax system,
all compensation, including deferred and dedicated pay-
ments, should be included in taxable income. In contrast,
under current law individual taxpayers can make tax-pre-
ferred contributions to certain types of employer-provided
401(k) plans (and 401(k)-type plans like 403(b) plans and
the Federal Government’s Thrift Savings Plan). In 2010,
an employee could exclude up to $16,500 (indexed) of
wages from AGI under a qualified arrangement with an
employer’s 401(k) plan. Employees age 50 or over could
exclude up to $22,000 in contributions (indexed). The tax
on contributions and the investment income earned by
401(k)-type plans is deferred until withdrawn.

150. Individual Retirement Accounts (IRAs).—
Under the baseline tax system, all compensation, includ-
ing deferred and dedicated payments, should be included
in taxable income. In contrast, under current law indi-
vidual taxpayers can take advantage of traditional and
Roth IRAs to defer or otherwise reduce the tax on the
return to their retirement savings. The IRA contribu-
tion limit is $5,000 in 2010 (indexed); taxpayers age 50
or over are allowed to make additional “catch-up’’ contri-
butions of $1,000. Contributions to a traditional IRA are
generally deductible but the deduction is phased out for
workers with incomes above certain levels who, or whose
spouses, are active participants in an employer-provided
retirement plan. Contributions and account earnings are
includible in income when withdrawn from traditional
IRAs. Individuals who make nondeductible contributions
to a traditional IRA can still benefit from deferral of tax
on earnings. Roth IRA contributions are not deductible,
but earnings and withdrawals are exempt from taxation
under certain conditions. Income limits also apply to Roth
IRA contributions; however, taxpayers at any income lev-
el may roll account balances from traditional IRAs into
Roth IRAs, after paying income tax on any deduction and
accrued income.

151. Low and moderate-income savers’ credit.—
The baseline tax system would not allow credits for par-
ticular activities or targeted at specific groups. In contrast,
the Tax Code provides an additional incentive for lower-
income taxpayers to save through a nonrefundable credit
of up to 50 percent on IRA and other retirement contri-
butions of up to $2,000. This credit is in addition to any
deduction or exclusion. The credit is completely phased
out by $55,500 for joint filers and $27,750 for single filers.

152. Keogh plans.—Under the baseline tax system,
all compensation, including deferred and dedicated pay-
ments, should be included in taxable income. In contrast,
under current law self-employed individuals can make
deductible contributions to their own retirement (Keogh)
plans equal to 25 percent of their income, up to a maxi-
mum of $49,000 in 2010. Total plan contributions are
limited to 25 percent of a firm’s total wages. The tax on
the investment income earned by Keogh plans is deferred
until withdrawn.

153. Employer-provided life insurance benefits.—
Under the baseline tax system, all compensation, includ-
ing deferred and dedicated payments, should be included
in taxable income. In contrast, under current law employ-
er-provided life insurance benefits are excluded from an
employee’s gross income even though the employer’s costs
for the insurance are a deductible business expense, but
only to the extent that the employer’s share of the total
costs does not exceed the cost of $50,000 of such insur-
ance.

154. Employer-provided accident and disability
benefits.—Under the baseline tax system, all compen-
sation, including dedicated payments and in-kind ben-
efits, should be included in taxable income. In contrast,
employer-provided accident and disability benefits are ex-
cluded from an employee’s gross income even though the
employer’s costs for the benefits are a deductible business
expense.

155. Employer-provided supplementary unem-
ployment benefits.—Under the baseline tax system, all
compensation, including dedicated payments and in-kind
benefits, should be included in taxable income. Employers
may establish trusts to pay supplemental unemploy-
ment benefits to employees separated from employment.
Investment income earned by such trusts is exempt from
taxation.

156. Employer Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) pro-
visions.—ESOPs are a special type of tax-exempt em-
ployee benefit plan. Under the baseline tax system, all
compensation, including dedicated payments and in-kind
benefits, should be included in taxable income. In contrast,
employer-paid contributions (the value of stock issued to
the ESOP) are deductible by the employer as part of em-
ployee compensation costs. They are not included in the
employees’ gross income for tax purposes, however, until
they are paid out as benefits. In addition, the following
special income tax provisions for ESOPs are intended to
increase ownership of corporations by their employees: (1)
annual employer contributions are subject to less restric-
tive limitations than other qualified retirement plans; (2)
ESOPs may borrow to purchase employer stock, guaran-
teed by their agreement with the employer that the debt
will be serviced by his payment (deductible by him) of a
portion of wages (excludable by the employees) to service
the loan; (3) employees who sell appreciated company
stock to the ESOP may defer any taxes due until they
withdraw benefits; and (4) dividends paid to ESOP-held
stock are deductible by the employer.

157. Additional deduction for the blind.—Under
the baseline tax system, the standard deduction is al-
lowed. However, additional standard deductions for tar-
geted groups within a given filing status would not be al-
lowed. In contrast, the Tax Code allows taxpayers who
are blind to claim an additional $1,400 standard deduc-
tion if single, or $1,100 if married in 2010.

158. Additional deduction for the elderly.—Under
the baseline tax system, the standard deduction is al-
lowed. However, additional standard deductions for tar-
geted groups within a given filing status would not be al-
lowed. In contrast, the Tax Code allows taxpayers who
are 65 years or older to claim an additional $1,400 stan-
dard deduction if single, or $1,100 if married in 2010.

159. Tax credit for the elderly and disabled.—
Under the baseline tax system, a credit targeted at a spe-
cific group within a given filing status or for particular
activities would not be allowed. In contrast, the Tax Code
allows taxpayers who are 65 years of age or older, or who
are permanently disabled, to claim a tax credit equal to
15 percent of the sum of their earned and retirement in-
come. The amount to which the 15 percent rate is applied
is limited to no more than $5,000 for single individuals
or married couples filing a joint return where only one
spouse is 65 years of age or older, and up to $7,500 for
joint returns where both spouses are 65 years of age or
older. These limits are reduced by one-half of the taxpay-
er’s adjusted gross income over $7,500 for single individu-
als and $10,000 for married couples filing a joint return.
160. Casualty losses.—Under the baseline tax sys-
tem, neither the purchase of property nor insurance pre-
miums to protect its value are deductible as costs of earn-
ing income. Therefore, reimbursement for insured loss of
such property is not included as a part of gross income,
and uninsured losses are not deductible. In contrast, the
Tax Code provides a deduction for uninsured casualty and
theft losses of more than $100 each, to the extent that
total losses during the year exceed 10 percent of the tax-
payer’s adjusted gross income.

161. Earned income tax credit (EITC).—The base-
line tax system would not allow credits for particular
activities or targeted at specific group. In contrast, the
Tax Code provides an EITC to low-income workers at
a maximum rate of 45 percent of income. For a family
with one qualifying child, the credit is 34 percent of the
first $8,970 of earned income in 2010. The credit is 40
percent of the first $12,590 of income for a family with
two or more qualifying children. The credit is 45 percent
of the first $12,590 of income for a family with three or
more qualifying children. Low-income workers with no
qualifying children are eligible for a 7.65 percent credit
on the first $5,980 of earned income. The credit is phased
out at income levels and rates which depend upon how
many qualifying children are eligible and marital status.
Earned income tax credits in excess of tax liabilities owed
through the individual income tax system are refundable
to individuals.

162. Exclusion of unemployment benefits.—The
baseline tax system would not allow deductions and ex-
emptions to certain types of income. In contrast the Tax
Code was modified in 2009 to allow an exclusion of up
to $2,400 of unemployment insurance benefits from gross
income for taxable year 2009.

163. Social Security benefits for retired work-
ers.— Under the baseline tax system, all compensation,
including dedicated payments and in-kind benefits, would
be included in taxable income because they represent ac-
cretions to wealth that do not materially differ from cash
wages. Thus, the portion of Social Security benefits that
is attributable to employer contributions and earnings on
employer and employee contributions (and not attribut-
able to employee contributions) would be subject to tax.
In contrast, the Tax Code may not tax all of the Social
Security benefits that exceed the beneficiary’s contribu-
tions from previously taxed income. Actuarially, previous-
ly taxed contributions generally do not exceed 15 percent
of benefits, even for retirees receiving the highest levels
of benefits. Up to 85 percent of recipients’ Social Security
and tier 1 railroad retirement benefits are included in
(phased into) the income tax base if the recipient’s provi-
sional income exceeds certain base amounts. (Provisional
income is equal to other items included in adjusted gross
income plus foreign or U.S. possession income, tax-exempt
interest, and one half of Social Security and tier 1 railroad
retirement benefits.) The untaxed portion of the benefits
received by taxpayers who are below the income amounts
at which 85 percent of the benefits are taxable is counted
as a tax expenditure.

164. Social Security benefits for the disabled.—
Under the baseline tax system, all compensation, includ-
ing dedicated payments and in-kind benefits, should be
included in taxable income because they represent ac-
cretions to wealth that do not materially differ from cash
wages. Under current law, however, benefit payments from
the Social Security Trust Fund for disability are fully or
partially excluded from a beneficiary’s gross incomes. (See
provision number 163, Social Security benefits for retired
workers.)

165. Social Security benefits for dependents and
survivors.—Under the baseline tax system, all compen-
sation, including dedicated payments and in-kind ben-
efits, should be included in taxable income because they
represent accretions to wealth that do not materially dif-
fer from cash wages. Under current law, however, benefit
payments from the Social Security Trust Fund for depen-
dents and survivors are fully or partially excluded from a
beneficiary’s gross income.

166. Veterans death benefits and disability com-
pensation.—Under the baseline tax system, all compen-
sation, including dedicated payments and in-kind ben-
efits, should be included in taxable income because they
represent accretions to wealth that do not materially dif-
fer from cash wages. In contrast, all compensation due to
death or disability paid by the Veterans Administration is
excluded from taxable income under current law.

167. Veterans pension payments.—Under the base-
line tax system, all compensation, including dedicated
payments and in-kind benefits, should be included in tax-
able income because they represent accretions to wealth
that do not materially differ from cash wages. Under
current law, however, pension payments made by the
Veterans Administration are excluded from gross income.

168. G.I. Bill benefits.—Under the baseline tax sys-
tem, all compensation, including dedicated payments and
in-kind benefits, should be included in taxable income be-
cause they represent accretions to wealth that do not ma-
terially differ from cash wages. Under current law, howev-
er, G.I. Bill benefits paid by the Veterans Administration
are excluded from gross income.

169. Tax-exempt mortgage bonds for veterans.—
The baseline tax system generally would tax all income
under the regular tax rate schedule. It would not allow
preferentially low (or zero) tax rates to apply to certain
types or sources of income. In contrast, under current
law, interest earned on general obligation bonds issued by
State and local governments to finance housing for veter-
ans is excluded from taxable income.

170. Public purpose State and local bonds.—The
baseline tax system generally would tax all income under the
regular tax rate schedule. It would not allow preferentially
low (or zero) tax rates to apply to certain types or sources of
income. In contrast, under current law interest earned on
State and local government bonds issued to finance public-
purpose construction (e.g., schools, roads, sewers), equip-
ment acquisition, and other public purposes is tax-exempt.
Interest on bonds issued by Indian tribal governments for
essential governmental purposes is also tax-exempt.

171. Build America Bonds.—The baseline tax system
would not allow credits for particular activities or target-
ed at specific group. In contrast, the Tax Code in 2009 al-
lowed State and local governments to issue taxable bonds
and receive a direct payment from Treasury equal to 35
percent of interest expenses. Alternatively, State and lo-
cal governments may issue taxable bonds and the private
lenders receive the 35 percent credit which is included in
taxable income.

172. Deductibility of certain nonbusiness State
and local taxes.—Under the baseline tax system,
a deduction for personal consumption expenditures
would not be allowed. In contrast, the Tax Code allows
taxpayers who itemize their deductions to claim a de-
duction for State and local income taxes (or, at the tax-
payer’s election, state and local sales taxes) and prop-
erty taxes, even though these taxes primarily pay for
services that, if purchased directly by taxpayers, would
not be deductible.

173. U.S. savings bonds.—The baseline tax system
would uniformly tax all returns to investments and not
allow an exemption or deferral for particular activities,
investments, or industries. In contrast, taxpayers may de-
fer paying tax on interest earned on U.S. savings bonds
until the bonds are redeemed.

